<NOVA> WINS GOVERNMENT OKAY FOR HUSKY <HYO> DEAL

Nova, the Canadian company that owns 56 pct of Husky Oil Ltd, said it received government approval for a transaction under which <Union Faith Canada Holding Ltd> would buy a 43 pct stake in Husky. Nova said the Minister of Regional and Industrial Expansion, Michel Cote, ruled that Union Faith's purchase of the Husky stake would not result in Husky ceding control to a non-Canadian company. It said this ruling was a key condition in completing the deal. Union Faith is equally owned by <Hutchison Whampoa Ltd> and <Hong Kong Electric Holdings Ltd>. Under the agreement with Union Faith, Husky will become a private company with Union Faith and Nova each holding 43 pct of its stock. Nine pct of Husky would be owned by relatives of Li Ka-Shing, chairman of Hutchison, and five pct by the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerice. Reuter 
VERSATILE TO SELL UNIT TO VICON

<Versatile Corp> said it agreed in principle to sell its Alberta-based Versatile Noble Cultivators Co division to Vicon Inc, of Ontario, for undisclosed terms. The division manufactures tillage and spraying equipment. Reuter 
VIDEOTRON BUYS INTO EXHIBIT COMPANY

(Groupe Videotron Ltd) said it agreed to buy 50 pct of (Groupe Promexpo Inc), a company which specializes in product exhibits, for three mln dlrs. Reuter 
WALLENBERGS FIGHT BID FOR SWEDISH MATCH STAKE

Sweden's Wallenberg group fought back a bid by the London-based Swedish financier Erik Penser to secure a large stake in Swedish Match <SMBS ST>, one of the companies at the core of their business empire. A statement issued by the Wallenberg holding companies AB Investor and Forvaltnings AB Providentia said they had taken over an option held by Nobel Industrier Sweden AB to acquire 33 pct of the voting rights in Swedish Match. Thre Wallenbergs paid Nobel Industrier <NOBL ST>, in which Penser group has a 72 pct stake, about 20 pct over the market price for the Swedish Match option, the statement said. Swedish Match's B shares open to foreign buyers closed at 424 crowns on Friday. The A shares -- with increased voting rights -- closed at 450 crowns for the restricted and 455 for the free shares. The statement said the deal increased Investor's stake to 49.4 pct of the voting rights and 14.8 pct of the share capital while Providentia is left holding 34.1 pct of the voting rights and 14.5 pct of the share capital in Swedish Match. The Wallenbergs' stake in Swedish Match had previously amounted to 52 pct of the voting rights in the company. The Swedish Match deal will cost the Wallenbergs about 400 mln crowns, share analysts said, making it one of the most expensise moves the group has undertaken in the last four years to defend its far-flung interests from outside predators. The Wallenbergs originally sold Nobel Industrier, an arms and chemicals group, to Penser in 1984 to pay for buying Volvo <VOLV ST> out of two other key group companies, Atlas Copco <ASTS ST> and Stora Koppabergs <SKPS ST>. Since then, the Wallenbergs were ousted as the largest shareholders in SKF (SKFR ST> by Skanska AB <SKBS ST> and Frederik Lundberg wrested control of Incentive AB from them. Lundberg, a Zurich-based Swedish property tycoon, also managed to acquire a 25 pct stake in another Wallenberg company, the diary equipment firm Alfa -Laval AB <ALFS ST>. During 1986, the Wallenbergs have been concentrating on building up their stake in Investor and Providentia to prevent any raid on the heart of their business empire. But analysts say the Wallenbergs' position in the electrical engineering firm ASEA AB <ASEA ST> is also too small at 12.6 pct of the voting rights and there has been growing speculation that the group will be forced to sell off fringe interests to protect its core activities. REUTER 
CONSOLIDATED TVX TO BUY BRAZIL GOLD MINE STAKES

<Consolidated TVX Mining Corp> said it agreed to issue 7.8 mln treasury shares to acquire interests in three gold mining companies in Brazil and an option to increase the company's interest in a platinum property. The company said the transactions will bring immediate production and earnings to Consolidated TVX, enhance its precious metal potential and is expected to improve cash flow and earnings on a per share basis. The company did not give specific figures. Consolidated TVX said it will acquire 29 pct of CMP, a public gold mining company in which TVX already holds a 15 pct interest, making TVX the largest single shareholder. The company also agreed to acquire a 19 pct stake in Novo Astro, a private company, and a 16 pct interest in Teles Pires Mining, increasing the TVX's ownership to 51 pct. In addition, Consolidated TVX said it will acquire the right to add a 10 pct interest to a platinum property in which it already owns a 29.4 pct stake. CMP earned 11 mln Canadian dlrs in 1986 and expects to produce 42,000 ounces of gold in 1987 at a cost of 160 U.S. dlrs an ounce, Consolidated TVX said. Novo Astro operates Brazil's richest gold mine located in Amapa State, with an average grade of 0.8 ounces of gold a ton in a hardrock quartz vein, Consolidated TVX said. Mining of eluvial surface material produced 25,000 ounces in 1986 and is expected to produce 60,000 ounces in 1987. It also said Teles Pires Mining controls rights to a 350 kilometer section of the Teles Pires River, where one dredge is expected to produce 10,000 ounces of gold in 1987. Reuter 
FOUR SEASONS BUYING MARRIOTT <MHS> HOTEL

<Four Seasons Hotels Inc> and VMS Realty Partners said they agreed to acquire the Santa Barbara Biltmore Hotel in California from Marriott Corp, for undisclosed terms. Closing was expected by March 31, they added. The companies said they would jointly own the hotel and rename it the Four Seasons Biltmore at Santa Barbara. They said they would spend more than 13 mln U.S. dlrs "to enhance the Biltmore's position as one of the finest resort hotels in North America." Chicago-based VMS Realty is a real estate and development firm. Reuter 
MONTEDISON CONCLUDES TALKS WITH ANTIBIOTICOS

Montedison Spa <MONI.MI> said it has concluded its negotiations with Spanish pharmaceuticals company <Antibioticos SA>. A company spokesman told Reuters "We have concluded the talks and we are now awaiting authorization from Spanish authorities." He declined to comment further. Earlier today the Italian company postponed a scheduled press conference on its talks with Antibioticos. An Italian press report today said Montedison has agreed to acquire Antibioticos for 500 billion lire. REUTER 
CORRECTED - BANKAMERICA NEGOTIATING SALE OF UNITS

Bank of America NT and SA's <BAC.N> West German branch said it is negotiating the sale of Bankhaus Centrale Credit AG, a small local West German bank it acquired in 1965, and of its West German Visa credit card operation. Michael Seibel, Bank of America vice-president and regional manager, said the negotiations were proceeding well. He declined to give further details. Bank of America's West German branch lost some 32 mln marks in 1985. The result includes profit and loss transfers from Bankhaus Centrale Credit and the Visa organisation. The sale of the units is part of the bank's worldwide restructuring plan. REUTER 
CORRECTED - BANKAMERICA NEGOTIATING UNITS SALE

Bank of America NT and SA's <BAC.N> West German branch said it is negotiating the sale of Bankhaus Centrale Credit AG, a small local West German bank it acquired in 1965, and of its West German Visa credit card operation. Michael Seibel, Bank of America vice-president and regional manager, said the negotiations were proceeding well. He declined to give further details. Bank of America's West German branch lost some 32 mln marks in 1985. The result includes profit and loss transfers from Bankhaus Centrale Credit and the Visa organisation. The sale of the units is part of the bank's worldwide restructuring plan. -- corrects year of loss in third paragraph in item which originally ran February 27. Reuter 
AMCA <AIL> TO SELL SOME DOMINION BRIDGE ASSETS

AMCA International Ltd said it finalized agreement to sell certain assets and inventories of its Dominion Bridge steel service center operations to <Federal Industries Ltd>'s Russelsteel Inc unit. Terms were undisclosed. It said the sale involved assets and operations of the general line of steel service centers in Toronto and Edmonton, Alberta and steel from inventories of closed AMCA branches. The company said the sale was part of a previously announced restructuring program to allow it to focus on certain core businesses and generate cash to cut debt. Reuter 
CCL UNIT ACQUIRES NESTLE CANADA CAN OPERATIONS

<CCL Industries Inc>'s Continental Can Canada Inc unit said it acquired the Wallaceburg, Ontario, metal can making operations of Nestle Enterprises Ltd, wholly owned by <Nestle SA>, of Switzerland. Terms were undisclosed. Continental Can said it would supply Nestle's equivalent can requirements under a long-term agreement. Nestle said it decided to stop manufacturing cans "in order to be in a better position to take full advantage of the changes underway or on the horizon in food packaging technology." Reuter 
CANTREX UNIT TO MERGE WITH ONTARIO GROUP

(Groupe Cantrex Inc) said it plans to merge a new wholly-owned subsidiary a merger agreement with (CAP Appliance Purchasers Inc), of Woodstock, Ontario, a group of about 400 appliance and electronics retailers. It said CAP shareholders will receive 140,700 first preferred Groupe Cantrex shares entitling the holders to receive 6.05 dlrs per share or the equivilant in class A subordinate voting Cantrex shares. The merger is effective April one and is subject to shareholder approval. Reuter 
TRANSAMERICA SELLS OCCIDENTAL LIFE AUSTRALIA

Equity investment company <Battery Group Ltd> said it had agreed to buy <Occidental Life Insurance Co of Australia Ltd> from TransAmerica Corp <TA> of the U.S. For 105 mln Australian dlrs. The acquisition has been made possible by the efforts of its major shareholder, <Pratt and Co Financial Services Pty Ltd>, Battery Group said in a statement. The purchase will be partly funded by the issue of eight mln shares at 4.50 dlrs each and four mln free options to the Pratt Group, controlled by entrepreneur Dick Pratt, plus four mln shares to professional investors at 4.50 each, it said. The balance will be funded by debt, Battery Group said. The acquisition is subject to the approval of its shareholders. On completion of the share placements, Pratt Group will effectively have 51 pct of Battery's enlarged capital, assuming exercise of all options, it said. Battery now has 22 mln shares on issue. Battery said Occidental Life is a major underwriter of individual term life insurance and a recent but fast-growing entrant in the individual account superannuation market. It has some 200 mln dlrs in funds under management. REUTER 
HK HOTELS SOARS ON TAKEOVER SPECULATION

The price of Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels Ltd <SHLH.HK>'s stock soared on speculation of a takeover battle between major shareholders the Kadoorie family and the Evergo Industrial Enterprise Ltd <EVGH.HK> group, stock brokers said. They noted heavy buying in Hk Hotel shares after an announcement by Evergo's <China Entertainment and Land Investment Co Ltd> unit that it bought about 20 pct of Hk Hotels from the firm's deputy chairman David Liang for 1.06 billion dlrs. The stock rose 12 H.K. Dlrs to 62 dlrs today. Thomas Lau, Evergo's executive director, declined comment on whether the group is seeking a further stake in Hk Hotels. But he told Reuters the group will hold the 20 pct stake bought from Liang as long term investment. He said Evergo "was attracted by the underlying strength of Hk Hotels." Analysts said Evergo may be looking for a possible redevelopment of the Peninsula Hotel, one of Asia's best known hotels, and another site on Hong Kong island. Both are owned by Hk Hotels. <Lai Sun Garment Co ltd> yesterday said it acquired a 10 pct stake in Hk Hotels from Liang for 530 mln dlrs. Lau denied any link between China Entertainment and Lai Sun on their acquisitions of the Hk Hotels stake. "It is purely coincidence," he said. But analysts were not so certain, saying that the Evergo group, which has a reputation as a corporate raider, may team up with Lai Sun Garment for a takeover. Lau also denied any contact with the Kadoorie family, which analysts estimate has more than 20 pct of Hk Hotels. Michael Kadoorie is chairman of Hk Hotels. Lau said two representatives of Evergo will be nominated to the Hk Hotels board. A source close to the Kadoorie family said the family has not considered any countermoves so far. Analysts said it would be difficult for Evergo and the Kadoorie family to cooperate because of different management styles. "Evergo may want to split up the hotel management and property developments of Hk Hotels but that strategy may not fit the conservative Kadoorie family," said an analyst who asked not to be named. Another analyst noted the price of Hk Hotels had been distorted by the takeover talks because its net asset value is only worth about 50 dlrs a share. The offers by Evergo and Lai Sun were for 53 dlrs a share, though that is well below the current trading price. Trading was suspended today in shares of Lai Sun, Evergo, China Entertainment and the group's associate <Chinese Estates Ltd>. Chinese Estates lost 25 cents to 20.15 dlrs yesterday, China Entertainment five to 8.60 dlrs and Evergo one to 74 cents. Lai Sun gained 50 cents to 70.50 dlrs. REUTER 
ITALY'S BNL NEGOTIATING PURCHASE OF GERMAN BANK

Italy's state-owned <Banca Nazionale Del Lavoro-BNL> said it is negotiating to buy a West German bank as part of its foreign expansion policy. BNL president Nerio Nesi told a news conference the Italian bank was currently involved in talks but declined to name the German institution. He said the takeover move could be seen as BNL's reply to Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F>, which entered the Italian market in December 1986, with the purchase of BankAmerica <BACN> subsidiary <Banca D'America e D'Italia>. Nesi said BNL had also approved a 200 mln dlr credit line to the Soviet Union aimed at enabling Soviet companies to pay for Italian imports. He gave no further details. BNL officials said the group had also decided to increase its activities in the Soviet Union by opening a representative office in Moscow this month through its subsidiary <Sogecred>, which specialises in Italian-Soviet trade. REUTER 
C.T.C. DEALER EXTENDS BID FOR CANADIAN TIRE

C.T.C. Dealer Holdings Ltd said it extended its previously announced offer for 49 pct of <Canadian Tire Corp Ltd> to midnight on March 26. CTC, a group of Canadian Tire dealers, which already owns 17 pct of Canadian Tire, is currently appealing in an Ontario court against a previously announced Ontario Securities Commission ruling blocking CTC's 272 mln dlr bid. The blocked bid did not include non-voting shareholders, who hold 96 pct of Canadian Tire equity. Reuter 
ROSSIGNOL UNIT BUYS CANADIAN SKI BOOT MAKER

French ski and tennis equipment maker <Skis Rossignol> said its 97.7-pct owned subsidiary <Skis Dynastar SA> agreed to buy Canadian ski stick and boot manufacturer <CFAS> from <Warrington Inc>. A Rossignol spokesman declined to give financial details but said turnover of CFAS was about 100 mln French francs, doubling the Rossignol group's activities in the boot and stick sectors. Reuter 
HRS <IHIRF> REDUCING STAKE IN HAL ROACH <HRSI>

International H.R.S. Industries Inc said it would reduce its stake in Hal Roach Studios Inc to 22 pct from 52 pct in return for 6.3 mln U.S. dlrs from Qintex Inc's Qintex America (Media) Ltd unit. H.R.S. said that under the deal's first stage, closng March 22, it would sell Qintex 900,000 Hal Roach shares at seven U.S. dlrs a share each for a total of 6.3 mln dlrs and Roach will repay H.R.S. 3.3 mln U.S. dlrs of advances. Qintex will also complete the 16.8 mln U.S. dlr buy of 2.4 mln Roach treasury shares at seven dlrs each and provide Roach with 50 mln U.S. dlrs of financing for expansion, H.R.S. said. H.R.S. said that the agreement also provided for a second stage over one year in which it had a put option exercisable one year from closing to sell Qintex all or part of its two mln Roach shares for 8.50 U.S. dlrs a share. It said Qintex had a 30-day call option, exerciseable nine months from closing, to buy from H.R.S. all or part of one mln Roach shares at the greater of 8.50 dlrs each or the average Roach share price for three months before exercise date. Qintex will also acquire another 2.4 mln Roach treasury shares at seven dlrs a share 12 months after closng for another 16.8 mln dlrs, H.R.S. said. Reuter 
WTC INTERNATIONAL <WAF> SETS SOUTH AFRICA TRUST

WTC International N.V. said it has sold its affiliates in South Africa to an independent trust, created to continue the operations in that country. The purchase price was about 8.4 mln dlrs, represented by a ten-year interest-bearing note, payable annually at 11 pct, to be paid by the trust out of proceeds from the South African operations, the company said. WTC said its board concluded in view of the social, political and economic situatin in South Africa, it was best to separate the company from its interests there. Reuter 
TRELLEBORG TAKE LARGER SLICE OF BOLIDEN

Swedish tyres, process equipment and components firm <Trelleborg AB> said it was taking a larger stake in mining and metals concern Boliden AB <BLDS.ST> than it had originally intended. Trelleborg had previously announced it was exercising an option to acquire up to 65 pct of Boliden's voting rights. In a statement, the company said they had received offers of up to 68 pct of the rights, and that they would accept all. Reuter 
BANCO SANTANDER TO BUY WEST GERMANY'S CC-BANK

<Banco Santander> signed a letter of intent with Bank of America <BAC> to purchase its West German affiliate <Bankhaus Centrale Credit AG>, CC-Bank, the bank said in a statement amplifying an earlier report from Frankfurt. "The incorporation of CC-Bank in our group will provide a major boost...For chanelling investment between Spain and the European Community," the statement said. "This operation enables us to take up a solid position in West Germany ahead of Spain's full integration into the EC's financial system in five years' time." The deal included the license for Visa credit cards. REUTER 
FRANCE TO SELL STAKE IN SOCIETE GENERALE UNIT

The French government is to sell to the public its 47.42 pct direct holding in Societe Generale <STGN.PA>'s regional bank subsidiary <Societe Generale Alsacienne de Banque>, SOGENAL, from next Monday, SOGENAL officials said. SOGENAL, founded in 1881 and nationalised in 1982, is the leading French regional bank and has branches in Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg, East and West Germany and Switzerland. Chairman Rene Geronimus told a news conference the share offer price, expected to be announced tomorrow by Finance Minister Edouard Balladur, would be between 110 and 130 francs. Societe Generale, which will itself be privatised later this year, will retain its 52.58 pct majority holding in the bank, Chairman Marc Vienot said. SOGENAL officials said they forecast 1987 consolidated group profit of around 170 mln francs after an estimated 160 mln this year and 159 mln in 1985. SOGENAL's privatisation will be preceded by a capital increase to 320 mln francs from 263 mln, earning about 250 mln francs in new funds. Its shares will be divided by eight, giving a capital of 12.8 mln shares of 25 francs nominal. The bank will be listed on the Nancy stock exchange, in line with the Finance Ministry and government's aim of a regional operation, Geronimus said. He said he was hoping for shareholders to total around 30,000 to 35,000 against the 12,500 before nationalisation. Ten pct of the capital to be floated will be reserved for employees with the rest offered to the public. There will not be a share reserved for foreign investors. "This is too small an operation and anyway they will be able to buy shares in France," he said. Stockbroker sources said that a likely share offer price of 120 francs would value SOGENAL at 1.5 billion francs. Geronimus said the bank's future aim would be to reinforce its existing strong points, with no major projects planned apart from the opening soon of a Basle branch. SOGENAL is the only French bank in Austria, it set up the first foreign exchange dealing room outside Paris at its Strasbourg headquarters in 1985, and is the only foreign banking subsidiary to be a broker on the Zurich Bourse. The government's banking adviser for the operation was <Banque Privee de Gestion Financiere>, BPGF, owned by French financier Pierre Moussa's <Pallas> group, assisted by Britain's <Hambros Bank Ltd>. REUTER 
ENFIELD CORP PLANS NOTES, PREFERRED ISSUE

<Enfield Corp Ltd> said it planned to issue 60 mln dlrs principal amount of notes and 1.6 mln class E preferred shares at 25 dlrs a share. The notes would bear 8 pct yearly interest, mature March 31, 2002 and be convertible to common shares on either March 31, 1997 or the business day before a fixed redemption date at 13.50 dlrs a share, Enfield said. It said each preferred share would be convertible to 1.85 common shares on either March 31, 1997 or the business day before a fixed redemption date. Gordon Capital Corp and Dominion Securities Inc agreed to acquire the issues, it said. Enfield said it would use proceeds to retire short-term bank debt and boost its 22 pct stake in <Consumers Packaging Inc> and its interest in <Federal Pioneer Ltd> through open market purchases. Reuter 
BOREALIS IN GOLD EXPLORATION PACT WITH FARAWAY

<Borealis Exploration Ltd> said it entered into an agreement with <Faraway Gold Mines Ltd> of Vancouver, British Columbia, under which Faraway will acquire an interest in Borealis's Whale Cove Gold Property in the Keewatin district of the Northwest Territories. Faraway will spend 1.5 mln dlrs on exploration over three years and will hold 50 pct of the property until all expenses are paid out, when the interest will drop to 40 pct. Also, Borealis and Faraway will issue treasury shares to each other and Faraway will buy 575,000 Borealis shares from Borealis president Lorne Spence. Reuter 
INSTRUMENTARIUM ACQUIRES NOKIA SUBSIDIARY

Finland's medical group Instrumentarium Oy <INMR.HE> said it has acquired electronics components importers and marketers <Ferrado Oy> and <Insele Oy>, subsidiaries of Finland's electronics group Nokia Oy <NOKS.HE>. It said in a statement Ferrado and Insele will be merged into Instrumentarium's Professional Electronics and Information Systems Division. It did not disclose a price for the acquisitions but said it had issued 30,000 restricted B shares as partial payment to Nokia. REUTER 
DOME<DMP> REPEATS DOME MINES<DM> STAKE FOR SALE

Dome Petroleum Ltd's 23.2 pct stake of gold producer Dome Mines Ltd continues to be for sale "at the right price," spokesman David Annesley said in response to an inquiry. Reaffirming remarks made last year by chairman Howard Macdonald, Annesley said the company is considering selling its stake in Dome Mines. Concerning Dome Petroleum's 42 pct stake in <Encor Energy Corp Ltd>, Annesley said "Encor is a strategic investment for Dome, and we have no intention of selling it." Dome spokesman Annesley said in answer to a question that he was not aware of any negotiations now under way toward the sale of Dome Petroleum's 20.9 mln Dome Mines shares. He also declined to specify at what price the company would consider selling it shares. "Clearly today's prices of more than 15 dlrs a share (of Dome Mines stock) are very attractive," Annesley commented. "We were considering the sale 'at the right price' at a time when the shares were priced around nine to 10 dlrs," he added. A price of around 15 dlrs a share would be considered "fairly attractive," Annesley said. Annesley also Dome Petroleum may be able to sell its Dome Mines' shares at a premium to market prices. "There might be an opportunity to pick up a premium on that because it would be virtually a control block in Dome Mines," he said. Dome Mines shares traded earlier at 15-1/4 dlrs, off 1/4 on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Dome Petroleum is now negotiating a plan to restructure debt of more than 6.1 billion Canadian dlrs with a group of 56 major creditors, which includes Dome Mines and Encor Energy. The company previously said it expects to detail the plan to lenders early next week. Reuter 
NORDBANKEN TO AUCTION ITS FERMENTA SHARES

Sweden's <Nordbanken> banking group said it would sell the 4.2 mln B free shares deposited as loan collateral by Fermenta AB's <FRMS.ST> founder and former chief executive Refaat el-Sayed and it planned to buy them up itself. The bank said the sale - by public auction on March 16 -- was because of a debtor's inability to repay an overdue loan. The B free shares closed at 16.50 crowns on the bourse's unofficial list -- down from a peak of 300 in January 1986. Nordbanken said it did not exclude accepting a suitable bid for the shares although it expected to buy them back itself. The statement said the sale did not represent any withdrawal from Nordbanken's undertakings towards the Fermenta group and that it had been sanctioned by the other main shareholders. Nordbanken is Fermenta's third largest creditor with loans of 155 mln crowns. It was one of the four Swedish banks which last month agreed to advance the group 110 mln crowns to solve its immediate liquidity problems. Together with two other main shareholders, it also advanced Fermenta an additional 65 mln crowns until a new equity issue could be made. Fermenta is due to hold an extraordinary shareholders' meeting on Tuesday to approve the planned equity issue. Nordbanken had to make a provision against a 200 mln crown loan to el-Sayed in its 1986 results. Fermenta's new management originally hoped to raise 160 mln crowns through the new one for four rights issue and an extra 170 mln from an issue to Nordbanken, another major creditor and shareholder <Gotabanken> and the group's new majority owner <Industrivarden AB>. The share price was to be 20 crowns. But there has been doubt over the plans since the stock fell below this level this week after Fermenta's former chairman Kjell Brandstrom said the company was in a much worse state than he thought. REUTER 
CARLING O'KEEFE SELLS STAR OIL UNIT TO UNITED COAL CANADA FOR 57 MLN DLRS



CARLING O'KEEFE<CKB> SELLS OIL UNIT, TAKES GAIN

Carling O'Keefe Ltd said it sold its Star Oil and Gas Ltd unit to United Coal (Canada) Ltd for about 57 mln dlrs cash. Carling said it will record an extraordinary gain of about two mln dlrs after tax, or nine cts a common share resulting from the sale. The company did not elaborate further on financial terms. A Carling official later said in reply to an inquiry that Carling would record the extraordinary gain in its fourth quarter ending March 31. The move came after Carling's 50 pct-owner <Rothmans Inc> agreed last week to sell its Carling stake to <Elders IXL Ltd>, of Australia, for 196.2 mln Canadian dlrs. Reuter 
DOME PETE<DMP> SAID TO BE PRESSED TO SELL ENCOR

Dome Petroleum Ltd is under pressure from one of its largest creditors, <Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce>, to sell its 42 pct stake in <Encor Energy Corp Ltd>, energy industry analysts said. Dome has pledged its 42.5 mln Encor shares as security for part of its debt to Commerce Bank, estimated last year at 947 mln Canadian dlrs, and the bank wants Dome to sell the stock to pay down debt, analysts said. "The Commerce has been slowly but surely moving Encor in the direction that might make it a saleable asset," said one analyst who asked not to be named. Dome earlier said it was not considering selling Encor Energy, but reaffirmed the company's 23.3 pct interest in Canadian gold producer Dome Mines Ltd <DM> is up for sale "at the right price." Dome, now negotiating a plan to restructure more than 6.10 billion dlrs in debt, sees Encor as a strategic investment that it does not intend to sell, spokesman David Annesley said. The Encor shares do not pay dividends. A Commerce Bank spokesman also declined comment when asked whether it is pressing Dome to sell its Encor stake. At current market prices, Dome's stake in Encor would be valued at about 308 mln dlrs, while its 20.9 mln Dome Mines shares would be worth about 319 mln dlrs. Recent strength in the price of Encor shares may also prompt Commerce Bank to press Dome to divest its holding in the Canadian oil and gas producer, analysts said. "Encor's stock price has improved quite substantially in recent weeks with a runup in crude prices," Peters and Co Ltd oil analyst Wilf Gobert commented. "The possibility is that Commerce Bank would like to see it sold at these levels because they can get more for it now than they have been able to in recent years," he added. Encor traded earlier on the Toronto Stock Exchange at 7-1/8, near its 52-week high of 7-1/2 and up from around six dlrs in early February. The company also recently set up its own operating management, which was previously carried out by Dome Petroleum, Maison Placements Canada Inc analyst Denis Mote commented. Dome and Encor "are actually going to get farther apart. So (the sale) does make a lot of sense," Mote said. However, analysts said Dome will resist any moves to divest Encor in favor of retaining the operating assets since sale proceeds would likely go directly to pay down Dome's debt to Commerce Bank. "I think they'll probably try to hang onto Encor as long as they can," said Bache Securities Inc analyst Doug Weber. Some of Dome's group of 56 major creditors might move to block such a sale, arguing they have a claim on company assets. "Other creditors generally all want to make sure that something they might be able to get a piece of is not being sold out from under them," said analyst Gobert. Another stumbling block would be Encor's 225 mln dlr joint liability in loans to Dome Petroleum advanced by Arctic Petroleum Corp of Japan for Beaufort Sea exploration. Analysts said a similar hurdle could also hinder the possible sale of Dome Petroleum's interest in Dome Mines. Dome Mines has guaranteed 225 mln dlrs of Dome Petroleum's debt and has a "right of consent" to the sale of Dome Petroleum's holding. Presumably, a potential buyer of the Dome Mines shares would seek some type of relief on the company's debt obligations connected with Dome Petroleum, Gobert said. Dome spokesman Annesley earlier declined to specify at what price the company would consider selling its Dome Mines shares, but said current prices of more than 15 dlrs a share "are very attractive." Reuter 
DUMEZ UNIT HAS 94 PCT OF WESTBURNE (WBI)

(Dumez Investments I Inc) said 94.7 pct of Westburne International Industries Ltd's outstanding common shares have been deposited under its takeover bid. It said it has received about 11,070,000 shares under its 22.50 dlrs per share offer which expired yesterday. Dumez said it will proceed to acquire the remaining common shares to give it 100 pct ownership of Westburne. Dumez is a private company owned jointly by (Dumez S.A.) and (Unicorp Canada Corp). Reuter 
CANADIAN NATURAL RESOURCES TO SELL STAKE

<Canadian Natural Resources Ltd> said it agreed in principle to sell 80 pct of its working interest in certain producing and non-producing natural gas properties located in southwestern Saskatchewan. The transaction is expected to close on April 1, 1987, the company said. It did not identify the buyer nor give the selling price. Proceeds will be used to satisfy a February 1987 repayment demand by one of the company's lenders. Any excess proceeds will be added to working capital, the company said. Reuter 
MONO GOLD SAYS PARTNERSHIP AGREES TO BUY SHARES

<Mono Gold Mines Inc> said <NIM and Co Ltd> Partnership agreed to buy flow-through shares with an aggregate purchase price of up to 300,000 dlrs. It said, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions, the price of the shares to NIM will be 79.6 cts per share, and said it will issue 376,955 shares to the partnership. Mono also said options to buy up to 300,000 dlrs of its capital stock at 65 cts per share expire March three. It said 39,000 options have been exercised to net the company 25,530 dlrs to be added to working capital. Reuter 
MALAYSIA BAILS OUT ANOTHER COMMERCIAL BANK

Malaysia's central bank said it acquired a 59.2 pct stake in ailing <United Asian Bank Bhd> (UAB), the sixth largest commercial bank in the country, to rebuild public confidence in it. UAB called for a rights issue last November to raise 152.49 mln ringgit to rectify its capital deficiency following an accumulated loss of 107.61 mln ringgit at end-1985, the central bank, Bank Negara, said in a statement. But only 16.99 mln ringgit in shares was taken up by shareholders, mainly local Indian and Malay businessmen and the Indian Government. Bank Negara said it subsequently took up the unsubscribed shares, totalling 135.5 mln of UAB's new paid-up capital of 228.74 mln ringgit. It said the shares, held in trust, will be eventually sold. The central bank early this week also announced that it had bought 49.4 pct stake in another troubled commercial bank, <Perwira Habib Bank Malaysia Bhd>, after the latter raised its capital to 405 mln ringgit from 105 in mid-January this year. Bank Negara said it does not intend to hold on to the shares of the two banks. "The injection of capital in PHB and in UAB including the recamp of management in these banks are some of the measures taken by the bank to strengthen public confidence in the stability of the these banks," it added. The central bank said it is invoking Section 39A of the Banking (Amendemnt) Act 1986 empowering it to grant loans to an ailing bank or to buy a stake in it. REUTER 
STORA CLOSE TO COMPLETING PAPYRUS TAKEOVER

Sweden's Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB <SKPS ST> said it had now acquired 90 pct of shares in rival pulp and paper makers Papyrus AB, thus passing the threshold above which it can compulsorily buy the rest of the company. Remaining shareholders would have until later this month to sell their shares to Stora, the company said in a statement. Stora announced last September it would acquire Papyrus at a price of 5.8 billion crowns, thus forming Europe's second largest forest group after London-based Reed International Plc <REED L>. REUTER 
STORA CLOSE TO COMPLETING PAPYRUS TAKEOVER

Sweden's Stora Kopparbergs Bergslags AB <SKPS.ST> said it has now acquired 90 pct of shares in rival pulp and paper makers Papyrus AB, thus passing the threshold above which it can compulsorily buy the rest of the company. Remaining shareholders would have until later this month to sell their shares to Stora, the company said in a statement. Stora announced last September it would acquire Papyrus at a price of 5.8 billion crowns, thus forming Europe's second largest forest group after London-based Reed International Plc <REED L>. REUTER 
COURT REJECTS BUITONI APPEAL OVER IRI FOOD UNIT

An appeal by Buitoni SpA against a court ruling that an accord under which it was to acquire Italian state food firm SME - Societa Meridionale Finanziaria was not contractually binding has been rejected, court officials said. An appeal court rejected Buitoni's claim that the 497 billion lire accord with the state industrial company IRI - Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale was a binding contract. The decision upholds a court ruling of last July. Buitoni is controlled by CIR - Compagnie Industriali Riunite, an investment company itself controlled by Ing C Olivetti EC SpA (OLIV.MI> chairman Carlo De Benedetti. Reuter 
JANNOCK ACQUIRES 50 PCT OF INTERCON SECURITY

<Jannock Ltd> said it acquired a 50 pct interest in Intercon Security Ltd for five mln dlrs and Intercon founders Brian Legge and Richard Grange will hold the remaining 50 pct and will continue to manage the company. Intercon Security, employing 850 people, provides a full range of security equipment and services, Jannock said. Reuter 
CANADA MULLING SELLING PETRO-CANADA - MULRONEY

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said the government was considering selling Petro-Canada and the sale would proceed if it were in the national interest to do so. Mulroney told the House of Commons assets of the huge oil company would be examined before a decision was made, just as other state-run companies were studied before being sold under Ottawa's privatization program. "The government is going to examine assets of this nature to ascertain if they continue to play an appropriate role in public policy and we will make a determination as we have in other cases," Mulroney told the daily question period. Asked by opposition members to clairify Finance Minister Michael Wilson's statement on Friday that Petro-Canada no longer has any pubilic policy role, Mulroney said his government has long promised to sell off companies that could be better run by the private sector. Outside the House, Energy Minister Marcel Masse said Petro-Canada would be worth between three and four billion dlrs and, because of the size, could be difficult to sell. He also said he would prefer to see Canadians participating in any privatization, but would not give any details on timing of a sale. Reuter 
WARRINGTON SELLS SHOE DIVISIONS

(Warrington Inc) said it sold its shoe divisions to Montreal-based (Taurus Footwear Inc) for undisclosed terms. The divisions manufacture and distribute Greb, Hush Puppies, Kodiak, and Santana brand shoes and had revenues of about 69 mln dlrs last year, Warrington said. It said the sale of the shoe divisions and the previous sale of its ski boot businesses will result in an unspecified net gain. Warrington said it plans to concentrate on its Canstar Sports Group Inc skate and athletic footwear division, the largest ice skate manufacturer and distributor in the Western world. Warrington said it decided to rationalize the balance of its ski businesses, which is expected to result in a divestment loss which could outweigh the net gains on the sales of its shoe and ski boot divisions. Taurus said the acquisition is expected to increase its annual sales to about 100 mln dlrs and make it Canada's largest footwear manufacturer. Reuter 
KAUFHOF CONSIDERING TAKING STAKE IN HAPAG-LLOYD

West German retail group Kaufhof AG <KFHG.F> is considering taking a stake in shipping and transport group Hapag-Lloyd AG <HPLG.F> but has yet to reach a final decision, a spokesman said in response to queries. Press reports said Kaufhof wanted a stake of up to 12.5 pct in Hapag-Lloyd. The Kaufhof spokesman noted any decision on purchasing shares in the shipping group would have to be approved by the supervisory board, which is due to hold a meeting tomorrow. Late last year the Gevaert group of Belgium and West Germany's VEBA AG <VEBG.F> said they had each acquired a 12.5 pct stake in Hapag-Lloyd from Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> and Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>. Industry sources estimate Deutsche and Dresdner, Hapag-Lloyd's majority shareholders, held about 75 pct of Hapag-Lloyd's share capital before selling portions of it to Gevaert and VEBA. The two banks have said they eventually wanted to reduce their stake in the shipping group to 15 pct each. REUTER 
QUEENSLAND PRESS BOARD RECOMMENDS MURDOCH OFFER

The <Queensland Press Ltd> (QPL) board said it unanimously recommended the one billion dlr takeover bid by <Cruden Investments Pty Ltd>, a family company of News Corp Ltd <NCPA.S> chief executive Rupert Murdoch. The 23 dlrs a share cash-only offer is nearly double the market price before News announced its now-completed bid for The Herald and Weekly Times Ltd <HWTA.S> in early December and no other offer is likely, it said in a statement. Independent adviser, <Wardley Australia Ltd>, had also concluded the offer was fair and reasonable, it added. QPL is already owned 48.3 pct by HWT. REUTER 
SHV WITHDRAWS IC GAS OFFER

SHV Holdings NV said it is withdrawing its take-over bid for Imperial Continental Gas Association <ICGS.L> after failing to gain the minimum number of pledges sought from IC Gas shareholders. SHV said in a statement it had sought to gain 750,000 IC Gas shares under a 700p offer for IC Gas ordinary stock but was informed that level was not reached when the deadline expired. "The tender offer is therefore void," it said. SHV also offered 252 pence for every one stg nominal of IC Gas loan stock under the bid, made by <SHV (United Kingdom) Holding Co Ltd>. Reuter 
BELGIAN MINISTER UNVEILS PRIVATISATION PLAN

Belgian Budget Minister Guy Verhofstadt has proposed a plan to sell off shares in several state-owned enterprises, including national airline Sabena and the postal and telecommunications authority, government sources said. They said the plan could raise more than 25 billion francs in revenue over the next five years according to Verhofstadt's projections, helping the government to reduce its huge budget deficit, targetted this year at 418 billion francs. But the scheme had received a guarded reception from the Social Christian parties in Belgium's centre-right coalition when Verhofstadt unveiled it at a cabinet meeting yesterday. Discussion of the plan was likely to be long and difficult, the sources said. Verhofstadt proposes beginning the selloffs in the last quarter of 1987, with the sale of 30 to 40 pct of state investment company SNI. He expects the sale to raise three billion francs, they added. A 25 pct share in Sabena would be sold in mid-1989 for 1.5 billion francs, while 50 pct of the postal and telecommunications authority would be sold off in two stages in mid-1990 and early 1992, raising at least seven billion francs. Also on Verhofstadt's list are the Maritime Transport Authority, leading gas distributor Distrigaz, CGER savings bank, CGER, and several other credit institutions. Le Soir daily quoted CGER vice-president Paul Henrion as expressing strong opposition to the privatisation of his bank. "Public company we are and public company we wish to stay," Henrion told the paper. REUTER 
PLACER <PLC> TO INCREASE STAKE IN EQUITY SILVER

<Equity Silver Mines Ltd> said it agreed to sell 6.6 mln shares of a new class of par value voting stock to Placer Development Ltd for 37.1 mln dlrs, increasing Placer's stake in Equity to 74.5 pct from 68 pct. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and a vote by Equity minority shareholders at the April 23 annual meeting, the company said. Proceeds from sale of the shares, priced at 5.625 dlrs each, will be used to buy and deliver 4,985,000 ounces of silver to Placer, Equity said. Equity Silver said the silver remains to be delivered under its sale agreement with Placer, after delivery of its 750,000 ounce minimum commitment for 1987. Equity said it arranged to acquire 4,985,000 ounces of silver at 7.40 dlrs an ounces, subject to selling the shares to Placer. Purchase and delivery of the silver to Placer will result in an after-tax gain of about 6.6 mln dlrs, Equity said. It also said the stock and silver transactions will create a 37,059,000 dlr fund out of which dividends will be paid when cash is available. The cash fund will enable Equity Silver to continue to pay dividends on its preferred shares and increase the likelihood that it may be able to pay dividends on its common shares, the company said. It did not elaborate on what common share dividends might be paid. The company normally pays quarterly preferred dividends totalling 619,000 dlrs from retained earnings, Equity Silver said. Equity Silver had retained earnings of 2,312,000 dlrs at December 31, 1986. Reuter 
NORTH BH SETS ONE-FOR-FIVE OFFER FOR NORGOLD FLOAT

North Broken Hill Holdings Ltd <NBHA.ME> (NBH) said it will offer one <Norgold Ltd> share for every five NBH shares in the float of its newly created gold offshoot. The 20 cent par-value shares will be offered at 22 cents to shareholders registered April 3, NBH said in a statement. Norgold's issued capital will be 240.5 mln shares, of which 63 pct will be held by NBH after 89 mln are issued to shareholders to raise 19.6 mln dlrs, it said. Norgold will take control of a portfolio of precious metal exploration and pre-development interests held by NBH. The major gold deposit to be acquired by Norgold is 100 pct of the Bottle Creek deposit, west of Leonora in Western Australia, NBH said. Production of gold from the project, at an annual rate of 35,000 ounces, is scheduled to begin early in 1988. Norgold will also have a 10 pct stake in the Coronation Hill gold/platinum project in the Northern Territory and 43 pct of the Poona copper/gold project in South Australia. Other gold exploration interests to be acquired by Norgold are in Western Australia, Queensland, New South Wales and Tasmania, NBH said. REUTER 
RENOUF SELLS 10.83 PCT NZI STAKE TO BRIERLEY

<Renouf Corp Ltd> said it sold its 10.83 pct stake in <NZI Corp Ltd> to <Brierley Investments Ltd>, (BIL), for 207.7 mln N.Z. Dlrs. Renouf managing director Mike Cashin said in a statement it had been Renouf's intention to build up a long-term strategic position in NZI. "But it became clear to us that it was in the best interests of both NZI and ourselves for Brierley Investments to acquire our holding," he said. He said Renouf built up its NZI holding over the past six months. The sale comprised 74.9 mln shares at 2.725 N.Z. Dlrs a share and 2,095 warrants at 1,709 dlrs each. The warrants are attached to a 150 mln Swiss franc note issue. Each bond of 5,000 francs carries a detachable warrant entitling the bearer to 2,486 NZI shares. In its 1986 annual report BIL reported that it held a 19 pct stake in NZI. NZI has 673.4 mln ordinary shares on issue. Total capital including shares attached to warrants is 678.8 mln shares. Cashin said the sale will result in a significant profit and places Renouf in a good position to consolidate on recent transactions and pursue other opportunities. NZI shares were at 2.18 N.Z. Dlrs, BIL at 4.08 and Renouf at 6.15 at the close of trading. BIL executives were unavailable for comment. REUTER 
GUARDIAN-MORTON SHULMAN AGREES TO TAKEOVER BID

<Guardian-Morton Shulman Precious Metals Inc> said Morton Shulman and Guardman Investment Management Services Inc agreed in principle for Andrew Sarlos to make a takeover bid for all special shares and series II warrants of Guardian-Morton, subject to regulatory approval and completion of definitive documentation. Guardman Investment, current manager and owner of all common shares of Guardian-Morton, also agreed to sell the common and its management agreement to a company controlled by Sarlos if the takeover bid is successful, Guardian-Morton said. Price to be offered for the Guardian-Morton special shares under the takeover bid will be 90 pct of the net asset value of the special shares at the time of the bid, and two dlrs for each series II warrant, the company said. Guardian-Morton said the takeover bid will be conditional on Sarlos acquiring at least 90 pct of the special shares and 90 pct of the series II warrants, when combined the number of special shares and warrants owned by the offeror at the time of the bid. Investment companies managed by Sarlos currently own slightly less than 10 pct of Guardian-Morton's special shares. Reuter 
VAN OMMEREN ACQUIRES DUTCH GAS CONTAINER UNIT

Dutch shipping and transport group PHS Van Ommeren NV <OMMN.AS> said it has taken over a small Dutch gas container firm as a first step in establishing a world-wide gas container organisation. The firm, Liquid and Gas Transport BV (LGT), employs 10 people and has a fleet of 200 gas containers. Van Ommeren will shortly open an office in Singapore and expand its facilities in Houston to establish the gas container network. REUTER 
MERRILL LYNCH<MER> CANADA MULLS BUYING BROKER

Merrill Lynch Canada Inc, wholly owned by Merrill Lynch and Co, is considering acquiring another Canadian securities company as the result of federal and provincial government moves to lift investment dealer ownership restrictions on June 30, according to a published report. "We're talking to a number of people," Merrill Lynch Canada deputy chairman E. Duff Scott told The Toronto Star. "Whether we're going to do something, I don't know," he said. A Merrill Lynch Canada spokesman declined to comment on the newspaper report when queried. Scott did not disclose which investment dealers Merrill Lynch Canada was considering acquiring, but the Toronto Star quoted unidentified industry sources as saying serious discussions have already been held with Burns Fry Ltd. Burns Fry chairman Jack Lawrence told the newspaper the investment dealer has not made a final decision, but was examining "three or four alternatives." Discussions between brokers about possible mergers is to be expected pending industry deregulation, one investment industry source, who asked not to be named, told Reuters. "It's silly not to take a look (at making a merger or acquisition). If you're a businessman, you have to take a look," the industry source said. Under federal and provincial government regulations expected to be in place by June 30, banks, trust companies and foreign companies will be allowed to acquire existing investment dealers or establish their own securities subsidiaries. Reuter 
ALLIED-LYONS SEES NO CHANGE IN HIRAM WALKER STAKE

Allied-Lyons PLC <ALLD.L> and Canada's Reichmann brothers are working well together as partners and currently do not plan any change in their joint ownership of distiller Hiram Walker-Gooderham and Worts, Allied-Lyons chairman Derrick Holden-Brown said. Allied-Lyons got 51 pct control of Hiram Walker-Gooderham last year for about 600 mln U.S. dlrs, while the Reichmanns' <Gulf Canada Corp> acquired 49 pct in an out-of-court pact after a hostile battle for the wine and spirits division of <Hiram Walker Resources Ltd>. "We are getting along very well as partners ... I hope there won't be any change, but there could be," Holden-Brown told reporters after a speech in Toronto. He said Allied-Lyons has a two-year call option that could force Gulf Canada to sell its 49 pct stake to Allied-Lyons, and Gulf Canada has a two-year put option that could obligate Allied-Lyons to buy its 49 pct. "Both we and Gulf hope very much there will be no occasion for either the put or call to be exercised," Holden-Brown said. In answer to a reporter's question, Holden-Brown said it would be possible for Gulf Canada to sell off part of its 49 pct in a public offering with Allied-Lyons' consent. "I don't think we would have any objection to it," he added. Allied-Lyons maintains control of Hiram Walker-Gooderham's board of directors and has total responsibility for its management. "We cannot contemplate giving up our control," he said. Holden-Brown would not disclose how big a profit contribution the distiller will make in Allied-Lyons' financial results, but he said "it will be substantial." "I am not able to give profit forecasts," he said. Holden-Brown said Allied-Lyons was able to finance the Hiram Walker-Gooderham acquisition with cash and borrowings, and has no current plans for a stock issue. He said the company is not currently negotiating any more acquisitions in Canada but has a team of officials evaluating possible purchases of wines, spirits, soft drinks or food concerns. "I don't think we shall be looking at the brewery scene (which is) highly concentrated already," he added. Holden-Brown said Allied-Lyons plans to list its shares on Canadian stock exchanges, possibly later this year. Reuter 
IEL'S ACMEX UNIT TO BID FOR CHEETHAM

<Industrial Equity Ltd> (IEL) unit <Acmex Holdings Ltd> said it proposed to make a formal takeover offer for all the issued capital of <Cheetham Ltd>, a producer of salt, animal feed and seeds. Acmex said in a statement it would offer one share for every two Cheetham shares or 3.40 dlrs cash for each share. Acmex said it was presently entitled to 5.1 mln Cheetham shares or 16.85 pct of its 30.27 mln issued shares. The scrip offer values Cheetham at about 110 mln dlrs, based on Acmex's current price of 7.20 dlrs, and the cash offer at about 104 mln. Cheetham last traded at 3.10 dlrs. REUTER 
MANNESMANN CONSIDERING MAJORITY STAKE IN FICHTEL

A Mannesmann AG <MMWG.F> spokesman said the company has lodged an application with the Federal Cartel Office for approval of a possible majority stake in car parts company <Fichtel und Sachs AG>. He described the application as a precautionary move and said no agreement on buying a majority stake had yet been reached. Until now Mannesmann has said only that it wanted to buy a 37.5 pct stake in Fichtel from the heirs of Ernst Wilhelm Sachs, the grandson of the firm's founder. The spokesman declined to say from whom it may buy the other shares to create a majority stake in the firm. Fichtel's other principal shareholders are Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F>, with 35.01 pct, and Salzgitter AG <ISLG.F>, with 24.98 pct. Spokesmen declined to comment directly on the possibility of selling Fichtel shares to Mannesmann. Mannesmann said in January it hoped to take a 37.5 pct stake in Fichtel's holding company Sachs AG in the first quarter. Last week a spokesman said Mannesmann had a letter of intent on the 37.5 pct stake but completion was being delayed by legal questions surrounding the inheritance. REUTER 
KLM SEEKS STAKE IN BRITISH COURIER SERVICE

KLM Royal Dutch Airlines <KLM.AS> said it is negotiating for a minority stake in a British and Commonwealth Shipping Plc <BCOM.L> courier service in a transaction which might include a convertible loan issue. KLM, already active in the fast growing door-to-door delivery market through a 50-pct stake in a Dutch courier service, is seeking to buy one-third of <IML Air Services Group Ltd> from British and Commonwealth. The two companies agreed earlier this month for KLM to take a 15-pct stake in British and Commonwealth commuter airline Air U.K. Ltd in a deal worth around two mln stg. Reuter 
TELEMEDIA TO BUY HARROWSMITH, EQUINOX MAGAZINES

(Telemedia Inc) said its (Telemedia Publishing Inc) subsidiary agreed to buy privately-owned Harrowsmith and Equinox magazines for an undisclosed amount of cash. Telemedia said the acquisition is expected to have a small positive impact on short-term earnings. Harrowsmith, an alternative life-style magazine, is Canada's seventh-largest paid circulation English-language magazine while Equinox is the country's eighth largest. Each has a circulation of about 160,000 copies. The magazine group had revenues of eight mln dlrs last year and employs 50 people, Telemedia said. Telemedia said it will also acquire a 10 pct interest in the company which recently launched the U.S. edition of Harrowsmith. The magazine's U.S. editiion, begun last year, now has a paid circulation of 180,000, the company said. It said a final deal is expected in mid-April. Telemedia said the magazines' founder has agreed to continue to provide editorial and publishing direction for the magazines. Reuter 
SOUTHAM UNIT ACQUIRES WINNIPEG COMMUNITY PAPERS

<Southam Inc> said its Flyer Force unit acquired three community newspapers in Winnipeg with a combined circulation of 65,000 for undisclosed terms. Southam said the newspapers, The Herald, The Lance and Metro One, will be printed at its Canadian Publishers division in Winnipeg. Flyer Force intends to expand distribution of the newspapers to begin improved service to the Winnipeg market, Southam said. Reuter 
PDVSA TO SIGN CHAMPLIN REFINERY DEAL MARCH 17

Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. said it will sign a contract March 17 to buy a half interest in a Corpus Christi, Texas refinery and related operations. The contract, to be signed by PDVSA and Champlin Petroleum's parent company, the Union Pacific Corp, will create a new joint venture called Champlin Refining. The state oil company said PDVSA will pay on the order of 30 mln dlrs for the half interest in Champlin. Energy minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said Wednesday the cost would be 33 mln dlrs in cash, plus an additional 60 mln in crude and refined oil shipments. PDVSA and Union Pacific have sought a line of credit from a group of North American and Japanese banks to finance the new company's working capital, the Venezuelan company said. Under the deal, PDVSA will supply up to 140,000 barrels a day to the refinery with the option to place 50,000 bpd more - mostly gasoline and distillates - through Champlin's distribution system in 10 U.S. states. The new company will be directed by a six-member board, with three representatives each from PDVSA and Union Pacific. According to PDVSA, Venezuelans will occupy such key positions such as treasurer and vice-president for manufacturing. The total capacity of the Champlin refinery is 160,000 bpd of crudes and another 40,000 bpd of intermediates. The plant will be able to handle 110,000 bpd of Venezuelan heavy crudes, which make up more than half of the country's crude oil exports. Reuter 
DELORS QUOTED FAVOURING FRANCO-GERMAN BID FOR CGCT

European Commission President Jacques Delors, quoted by Le Monde newspaper, said he favoured a Franco-German candidate to take over <Cie Generale de Constructions Telephoniques>, which has a 16 pct stake in the French public telephone switching market. "I wish for a European solution ... That will enable Germany and France to move closer together, which is currently necessary," he was quoted as saying. "Given the situtation of the EC (European Community) and of the importance for our future connunications audiences and of cooperation already undertaken on the Community level, that seems the best choice," Delors added. Five groups, including an alliance between West Germany's Siemens AG <SIEG.F> and France's Schneider S.A. <SCHN.PA> subsidiary Jeumont-Schneider, have applied to buy what is France's second largest telephone switching firm. Under French privatisation law, foreign companies are restricted to a 20 pct stake in privatised companies. REUTER 
BHP TO MERGE BHP MINERALS AND UTAH INTERNATIONAL

The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S> said it will merge its BHP Minerals division and <Utah International Inc> into a single business unit under a common management structure. The merger will be effective June 1, coinciding with the retirement of Utah International chairman and chief executive Bud Wilson, BHP said in a statement. The new BHP-Utah Minerals International Group will be headed by Jim Curry as executive general manager and chief executive officer. Curry is currently executive vice-president of Utah International, BHP said. <BHP Petroleum (Americas) Inc>, formerly part of Utah International, will become a subsidiary of BHP's renamed <BHP Petroleum International>, now <BHP Petroleum Pty Ltd>, the company said. BHP will also bring its Queensland coal operations under one management structure and consolidate minerals marketing and sales offices in various markets throughout the world. BHP acquired Utah from General Electric Co <GE> in 1984. Utah's assets include stakes of 40.25 to 52.25 pct in seven large Central Queensland coking mines, 49 pct of the Samarco iron ore operation in Brazil, 60 pct of La Escondida copper deposit in Chile, the Island Copper mine at Port Hardy in Canada, 70 pct of a coal mine and 30 pct of a gold mine in South Africa and coal and other mines in the U.S. BHP Minerals' assets include wholly and partly-owned iron ore mines, coal mines, manganese and base-metal operations or prospects and 30 pct of the Ok Tedi gold-copper project in Papua New Guinea. REUTER 
MANILA GOVERNMENT TO TAKE OVER SAN MIGUEL BOARD

A government commission that controls 51 pct of <San Miguel Corp> (SMC) stock will increase its nominees on the firm's 15-member board to nine from six. "We want to correct business practices," Ramon Diaz, chairman of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG), told Reuters. "Right now there are a lot of companies that keep so many things from their shareholders and one of them is San Miguel," he said. A San Miguel spokesman declined comment. Diaz said New York investment bank Allen and Co Inc told the PCGG it was interested in tendering for all outstanding SMC stock, with the subsequent dispersal of 60 pct of the stock to Filipino investors to comply with investment laws. He said Australian businessman and brewer Alan Bond and the brewing company Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> were interested in buying 40 pct each of SMC stock. He added that the PCGG wanted some foreign input but would not allow foreign control of the brewing and food conglomerate, the Philippines' biggest manufacturing concern. Diaz said the PCGG did not plan to remove SMC president Andres Soriano from his family company. "He has tremendous prestige to run the company," Diaz said. "We appreciate his management, but certainly some practices have to be corrected." REUTER 
BOND DEFERS RIGHTS ISSUE, MULLS PROJECT PARTNERS

<Bond Corp International Ltd>, a subsidiary of the Australian-based Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S>, said it would defer its planned rights issue but still wants the issue to be made before July 31. No date has been set for the issue, announced in January. In a document to shareholders, Bond Corp said the delay follows its receipt of a 240 mln H.K. Dlr loan from its parent company to meet the first payment on the newly acquired Bond Centre commercial complex in central Hong Kong. It also wants outside partners to take up to 50 pct in the project, the company said. The January announcement said the rights issue would finance Bond Corp's 1.4 billion dlr acquisition of a 23.77 pct stake in HK-TVB Ltd <TVBH.HK> from film magnate Run Run Shaw. The company then reached an agreement with a consortium led by Sino Land Co Ltd <SINO.HK> to buy a commercial complex that is still under construction for 1.9 billion dlrs. Bond International said in the document that except for the 240 mln dlr loan, the deal would be financed from internal resources and by selling an interest in the building. The payments must be completed by the end of 1987. Bond International has also sold several residential buildings in Hong Kong's mid-levels district for a total of 68.35 mln dlrs, the statement said. The flats were among the properties it bought last year from Hongkong Land Co Ltd <HKLD.HK> for 1.4 billion dlrs. Analysts said Bond International is heavily geared as it has relied on bank borrowings to purchase both the Hongkong Land properties and the HK-TVB shares. Bond International also said in the document that while it plans to sell an interest in the complex it will hold the HK-TVB shares as a long-term investment. REUTER 
ALDERSHOT AGREES TO ACQUIRE INTRACOASTAL REFINING

Aldershot Resources Ltd said it signed an interim agreement to acquire 100 pct of the outstanding shares of Intracoastal Refining Inc of Conroe, Texas. Aldershot will pay a certain number of shares of common stock based on book value, and up to a maximum of one mln shares under a formula linked to the next five years' pre-tax net revenues. The transaction is subject to completion of a definitive agreement and to regulatory approval. Reuter 
DERLAN ACQUIRES 80 PCT OF AURORA INDUSTRIES

<Derlan Industries Ltd> said it acquired 80 pct of Aurora Industries Inc of Montgomery, Illinois for an undisclosed price. Closing is subject to completion of legal formalities, Derlan said. Reuter 
ITALY'S FERRUZZI TAKES OVER SPANISH MILL

Italy's Ferruzzi SpA has taken a 67 pct stake in Spanish sunflower seed and cotton mill Cooperativa Agricola del Guadalete SA (GUADALCO), sources at GUADALCO said. The Italian firm's Spanish subsidiary, Ferruzzi Espana SA, took the majority equity stake, with the remaining 33 pct retained by GUADALCO. Ferruzzi plans to set up a sugar division and import some 30,000 tonnes of industrial sugar from its French factories in its first year of operation. GUADALCO has a processing capacity of 250 tonnes a day of sunflower seeds and 12,000 tonnes a day of raw cotton. Reuter 
MIM TO ACQUIRE STAKE IN GERMAN COPPER PRODUCER

Mount Isa Mines Holding Ltd plans to acquire a 30 pct stake in Europe's largest primary copper producer, Norddeutsche Affinerie AG, a spokesman for Metallgesellschaft AG said. MIM intends to take Preussag AG's total 20 pct share in the copper producer in exchange for some three pct of MIM's share capital. MIM will also take another 10 pct now held by Degussa AG, reducing Degussa's share to 30 pct from 40. Metallgesellschaft's share will remain at 40 pct. The move is subject to approval of the federal cartel office and supervisory boards of the companies involved. Reuter 
HONGKONG BANK SAYS CLOSE TO DEAL ON PROPERTY SALE

Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp <HKBH.HK> is close to a deal on the sale of a commercial building in Hong Kong's Mongkok business district, a bank spokesman said. He said the 21-storey Wayfoong Plaza was likely to be sold for about 280 mln H.K. Dlrs but declined to identify the buyer. The spokesman gave no further details. REUTER 
CREDIT AGRICOLE REPLACES BNP IN HACHETTE TV BID

French state agricultural bank <Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole> has joined the group led by publishing house <Hachette> which is bidding for control of the state television station TF1, replacing <Banque Nationale de Paris> which has withdrawn, Hachette said in a statement. Credit Agricole's stake in the consortium will be 3.5 pct. Last week the broadcasting supervisory board asked Hachette to remove BNP from the consortium because the bank had acted as adviser to the government for the imminent privatisation of TF1. Reuter 
FRANCE APPROVES WATERMAN ACQUISITION BY GILLETTE

Gillette Co <GS> exercised an option to take a 51.2 pct stake in the French pen firm Waterman which it had previously been authorised to do by the French government, the French stockbrokers' association (CSAC) said. Gillette has given an undertaking to intervene on the Bourse until April 7 to prevent Waterman shares from falling below 650 francs, it added. This compares with yesterday's rate of 625 francs. Under the agreement concluded last November between Waterman owners Francine and Grace Le Foyer-Gomez and Alice Lundgren and the Gillette group, Gillette agreed to acquire 51.2 pct of the capital of Waterman at 700 francs a share. Gillette is buying a total 180,000 shares, valuing the deal at 126 mln francs. Reuter 
CANADIAN FOREMOST CONTINUES MACEDON SALE TALKS

<Canadian Foremost Ltd>, earlier reporting lower 1986 net profit, said negotiations are continuing concerning the previously announced sale of the company's 49 pct interest in <Macedon Resources Ltd>. If concluded, the sale would be refelected in the company's 1987 results, Foremost said without elaborating. It also said lower revenues from the last half of 1986 are expected to continue during 1987, but a strong cash and working capital position will enable Foremost to go on developing traditional and new markets. It earlier said 1986 earnings fell to 1,042,000 dlrs from year-ago 2,510,000 dlrs. Reuter 
ATT-PHILIPS BID FOR CGCT OUTLINED

American Telephone and Telegraph Co and Philips Telecommunications BV (APT) would hold 36 pct through direct and indirect holdings in France's <Cie Generale de Constructions Telephoniques> if a joint bid with French partners for the soon-to-be-privatised firm succeeds, a director at one of the partner firms said. Marc Mathieu of <Societe Anonyme de Telecommunications> SAT, told journalists the bid foresaw a direct stake of 20 pct for APT, the joint firm set up by the U.S.'s ATT <T.N.> and the NV Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken <PGLO.AS>. The other 80 pct would be owned by a holding company made up of SAT, APT, Cie du Midi <MCDP.PA> and five mutual funds. Under French law, foreign investors are restricted to a 20 pct direct stake in privatised companies but can boost their stake to 40 pct through indirect holdings. The make-up of the holding company, however, is subject to close discussions within the government due to legal queries over the nationality of the mutual funds, a Finance Ministry official said. Although bought by French citizens they are managed by foreign banks <Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York> and <Banque de Neuflize, Schlumberger, Mallet SA>, controlled by Algemene Bank Nederland NV <ABNN.AS>, an SAT spokesman said. CGCT, which controls 16 pct of the French public telephone switching market, is to be sold by the government for 500 mln francs by private tender. Five groups are bidding for the company and the government has said it will choose CGCT's new owner by the end of April. APT vice-president Wim Huisman told a news conference a capital increase was envisaged if SAT-APT wins CGCT, but declined to give details or say how an increase would affect foreign stakes in CGCT. In 1985, CGCT posted losses of 200 mln francs on sales of three billion after 1984 losses of 997 mln francs. A joint SAT-APT statement added that buyers were committed to investing 240 mln francs in CGCT research and production plants. The APT-SAT offer includes a provision for CGCT to produce APT 5ESS-PRX switching technology and adapt it to French standards. The tender was launched after a 1985 draft agreement for ATT to take over CGCT was abandoned following the introduction of the French government privatisation laws which reopened bidding among a wider range of applicants. Other candidacies to take over CGCT include West Germany's Siemens AG <SIEG.F> allied with Schneider SA <SCHN.PA> subsidiary Jeumont-Schneider, Sweden's Telefon AB LM Ericsson <ERIC.ST> allied with Matra <MATR.PA> and Bouygues SA <BOUY.PA>, Italy's <Italtel>, and Canada's Northern Telecom Ltd <NTL.TO>. Reuter 
PERU TO SELL 40 STATE FIRMS TO CUT BUDGET DEFICIT

peru will sell about 40 state-owned firms to trim a projected 740 mln dlrs loss this year among government-owned companies. Some companies would be sold in their entirety and others would be privatised only partially, according to jose palomino, president of the government's state company holding firm, the national development council (conade). He told reporters in a radio interview that the aim was to slim a projected public sector firm deficit of 11 billion intis. He did not say if foreigners would be allowed to buy all or part of the companies. Independent economists warn that the deficit could push inflation to between 60 and 100 pct in 1987, against the govenment target of 40-50 pct. Palomino said aeroperu, the government flagship airline with a 10-jet fleet, would issue stock for purchase by private investors. The company in 1986 registered its first profit in eight years, earning about 44.6 mln intis in pre-tax profits. Peru has about 140 non-financial state firms. Palomino said the government would soon publish a list of those to be sold, including those whose shares would be offered on the lima stock exchange. Last november, palomino said conade's plans included the possible sale of a company producing palm oil and another manufacturing electrical appliances. Shares could also be sold in a copper mine, empresa nacional tintaya sa, in the southern state of arequipa. Neither Palomino nor conade's general manager, enrique estremadoyro, were available for comment on whether foreigners would be allowed to purchase the companies. Their secretaries said they were out of their offices. Jose antonio almenara, the general manager of the lima stock exchange, where shares of the state-owned firms could be sold, told reuters that the only foreigners who could purchase stock at the exchange had to be tax-paying residents of peru. He said foreign stockholders cannot remit profits abroad until at least july 1988. Reuter 
PAPERBOARD PLANS BID TO ACQUIRE BELKIN

<Paperboard Industries Corp> said it planned to make an unconditional 21 dlr a share cash offer for <Belkin Inc>'s 7.6 mln common and 2.3 mln non-voting shares. Paperboard said Balaclava Enterprises Ltd, owned by Morris Belkin, agreed to tender 98.2 pct of Belkin's common shares. It added that in case of a competing offer of more than 23 dlrs, it had the right to match it. If it did not match the offer, Balaclava could accept the competing bid. The two companies manufacture linerboard and boxboard from recycled fibre. Their combined revenues are about 500 mln dlrs. Reuter 
PHILIPPINES SOCIAL SECURITY TO BUY SAN MIGUEL SHRS

The Philippines' Social Security System (SSS) is planning to buy eight mln shares in diversified brewer <San Miguel Corp> (SMC), SMC chief financial officer Ramon del Rosario said. He told reporters the government organisation had expressed interest in one seat on SMC's 15-man board and was preparing to invest 800 mln pesos, assuming a purchase price of 100 pesos a share. The shares involved in the proposal were part of the block of 38 mln shares owned by the United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) and sequestered by the government. The block is split between class A and class B stock. SMC also proposed to sell a further five mln shares to A.N. Soriano Corp, the family company of San Miguel president Andres Soriano, del Rosario said. The shares are worth some 500 mln pesos at recent prices. Del Rosario said the 14 mln B shares in the block which are open to foreign ownership would probably be sold to unidentified foreign purchasers. He said SMC and UCPB would meet later this week to try to resolve disputes over the pricing of the shares. President Corazon Aquino earlier this month established an arbitration panel to settle a row over the disposal of the shares. Their initial sale to Soriano through SMC Hong Kong unit Neptunia Corp was blocked by the Presidential Commission on Good Government. The commission sequestered the stock on suspicion that the real owner of the block was Eduardo Cojuanco, the former chairman of San Miguel and the UCPB and a close associate of deposed former president Ferdinand Marcos. REUTER 
SINGAPORE GOVERNMENT TAKES OVER GOODWOOD SHARES

The Singapore government has taken over 82 mln dlrs worth of Goodwood Park Hotel Ltd shares and loan stock certificates belonging to the company's chairman, Khoo Teck Puat, banking sources said. Khoo is a major shareholder of the <National Bank of Brunei Bhd> (NBB), which closed in November after the Brunei authorities alleged 90 pct of its loans of 1.3 billion Brunei dlrs had been extended to Khoo-related firms without documentation or guarantee. The Goodwood securities are now held by the Commercial Affairs Investigation Department, the banking sources said. The department declined to comment. The government move is aimed at protecting Goodwood's minority shareholders and securing Goodwood deposits at the NBB, the banking sources said. Goodwood had a total of 87.3 mln dlrs in fixed deposits, bank balances and accrued interest due from NBB as of last November, according to Goodwood's annual report. REUTER 
TOYOTA MOTORS SIGNS PURCHASE AGREEMENT WITH PNB

The state-owned Philippine National Bank (PNB) will fund Toyota Motor Corp's <TOYO.T> planned purchase of its bankrupt former local partner's manufacturing facilities for at least 193 mln pesos, a bank official told reporters. Toyota has informed the Philippine government it plans to produce cars again here in joint venture with a local partner. It proposes to invest about 400 mln pesos in the manufacture of car spare parts and other items, and generate about 100 mln pesos in export earnings over five years. The banker said today a letter of intent was signed three weeks ago but the sale requires approval from government agencies charged with selling private sector assets taken over by state-owned banks. Official sources said Toyota's application was likely to be approved. Toyota severed ties with its Philippine partner of 20 years, <Delta Motor Corp>, in 1984 because the local company was suffering financial difficulties. PNB later foreclosed on Delta's assets. REUTER 
VEBA SHARE PLACEMENT STILL EXPECTED THIS MONTH

The sale of the government's 25.55 pct stake in VEBA AG <VEBG.F> is still expected this month, banking sources closely linked with the transaction said. A spokesman for the Finance Ministry said no exact date had yet been set for the privatisation, which the government has tabled for the second half of March. However, he added a scandal at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, VW, over currency losses "has nothing to do" with the timing of the VEBA sale. Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg has said the sale of the Federal government's stake in VW, originally scheduled for later this year, may be delayed because of the currency affair. A banker involved in the VEBA placement said "Nothing has changed in the planning. I still presume that it will take place in the second half of March." This banker said there would be no reason to postpone the issue of the 10 mln VEBA shares for a few days. He added that the consortium which is arranging the deal had completed its preparatory work, although the price had not been decided. The VEBA share has been weaker ahead of the placement but West German stocks have been generally bearish and news of the VW scandal last week put further pressure on the market. REUTER 
KLM DENIES PRESS REPORT OF AIR ATLANTA TAKEOVER

NV KLM Royal Dutch Airlines <KLM.AS> is "absolutely not" negotiating a takeover of U.S. Regional carrier Air Atlanta, a KLM spokeswoman said in a comment on an article in the leading Dutch evening paper NRC Handelsblad. "U.S. Law requires that at least 75 pct of shares in a U.S. Airline be owned by American firms or persons," the spokeswoman added. The newspaper said that Air Atlanta, which flies to 11 U.S. Cities, has a fleet of five Boeing jets with passenger capacity of 110 and employs 400 people, is making losses. She said KLM had started talks with Vendex International NV <VENN.AS> on their jointly owned courier service XP Express Parcel Systems, but declined to confirm an NRC Handelsblad report saying it wanted to buy the Vendex stake in XP. KLM said last week it is negotiating a minority stake in British courier service <IML Air Services Group Ltd>, a subsidiary of British and Commonwealth Shipping Plc <BCOM.L>, to strengthen its position in the fast-growing worldwide door-to-door delivery market. The KLM spokeswoman said she expected further announcements about the talks with Vendex to be made early next week. REUTER 
FERRUZZI NEGOTIATING EUROPEAN ACQUISITION

Italy's <Gruppo Ferruzzi> is in the advanced stages of negotiations that could result in an acquisition worth "some hundreds of billions of lire" in the European agro-industrial sector, a company spokesman told Reuters. The spokesman declined to identify the other party or parties involved in talks, or whether a complete takeover was under discussion, but said an Italian newspaper report that Ferruzzi was studying the possibility of advancing an offer for 13 European cereal processing plants owned by the U.S. Group CPC International Inc <CPC.N> was incorrect. The spokesman said that possibility had been evaluated by Ferruzzi but that the company's attention at the moment was "decisively in another direction." The spokesman, responding to a report in the Italian economic daily Il Sole-24 Ore that Ferruzzi was considering a possible bid for the CPC plants, told Reuters his company hoped to conclude the talks currently underway in a couple of months. The spokesman said that since the U.K. Government last month blocked Ferruzzi's bid to acquire <British Sugar Plc>, the company had been looking at other investment opportunities. REUTER 
CANAMAX TO ACQUIRE KREZMAR GOLD PROPERTY STAKE

<Canamax Resources Inc> said it agreed to acquire the 50 pct interest it does not already own in the Krezmar gold property, near Wawa, Ontario, by paying nine mln dlrs to <Algoma Steel Corp Ltd> and granting Algoma a four pct net smelter return royalty, which is payable after payback. The property's drill indicated reserves to a depth of 1,200 feet are estimated at over one mln tons averaging 0.25 ounces of gold a ton, Canamax said. Reuter 
GELCO <GEL> TO SELL CANADIAN COURIER UNIT

Gelco Corp said it signed a letter of intent to sell its Canadian courier unit, Gelco Express Ltd, to Air Canada for about 54 mln dlrs (U.S.). It said consummation of the transaction depends on execution of a definitive agreement, which is expected in May. As part of its restructuring plan, Gelco had announced that it would sell four business units. Gelco Express Ltd was one of the companies scheduled for divestiture. Reuter 
AIR CANADA TO COMMENT ON GELCO<GEC> UNIT REPORT

State-owned Air Canada said it will make a statement at 1100 EST concerning a published report that the airline has agreed to acquire Gelco Corp's Canadian unit, Gelco Express Ltd, an Air Canada spokesman said. The spokesman declined to comment on the Toronto Globe and Mail report when queried. The sale of Gelco Express, Canada's second largest courier service, is part of the parent company's strategy to repay 350 mln U.S. dlrs of debt by the end of 1987, the report said, quoting a Gelco spokesman. The report did not disclose a price for the sale of Gelco's Canadian unit. Reuter 
ICELAND TO PRIVATISE STATE BANK UTVEGSBANKI

The Icelandic government said it will privatise the state-owned bank Utvegsbanki, the country's second largest. Parliament also granted an 800 mln crown cash infusion to ease cash flow problems that arose when the bank lost 600 mln crowns in a shipping firm bankruptcy two years ago. Utvegsbanki director Halldor Gudbjarnarson told Reuters the decision to privatise the bank was a relief and that foreign banks had already expressed interest in taking a share. A quarter of the one billion crown total share capital will be available to foreign investors, government officials said. REUTER 
AIR CANADA TO ACQUIRE CALGARY COURIER COMPANY

Air Canada, the state-owned airline, said it signed a letter of intent to acquire 65 pct of EMS Corp, a Calgary-based messenger service which operates in Western Canada and the U.S.. Gelco Corp (GEL) earlier said Air Canada agreed to buy its Canadian Gelco Express Ltd unit for 54 mln U.S. dlrs. Air Canada said the acquisitions will complement its main cargo business. It said it expects the courier market to grow by about 25 to 30 pct a year. Reuter 
TECK TO INCREASE STAKE IN TRILOGY RESOURCE

<Trilogy Resource Corp> said <Teck Corp> agreed to purchase 4.5 mln Trilogy common shares at one dlr per share in a private placement, which would increase its stake in Trilogy to 37 pct from 29 pct. Trilogy also said its board approved a private placement of 3.5 mln common shares at a price of 90 cts per share to a group of investors. The placement will be made through McNeil Mantha Inc. Reuter 
HAWKER SIDDELEY CANADA TO SELL UNIT

<Hawker Siddeley Canada Inc> said that, due to poor market conditions for railway freight car manufacturing, it plans to sell its Trenton Works division in Trenton, Nova Scotia. Hawker Siddeley said it set aside a provision of 7.7 mln dlrs for the proposed sale. It also said lower 1986 earnings were due to much lower earnings in transportation equipment and losses in steel castings and forgings, which offset gains in the mining sector and improvements in forestry equipment. Hawker Siddeley also said demand for new railway equipment was limited with export sales frequently restrained by customers' financing difficulties. Demand for steel castings and wheels for Canadian railways continued to be very depressed with maintenance requirements at the lowest level in the past decade. However, there was demand for industrial casting due to increased hydro-electric power generation, the company said. The company said manufacturing of mining machinery and tunnelling equipment showed greatly improved results in the U.S. and export markets, mainly China and India. The Orenda division maintained a high level of activity in aircraft engine repair and overhaul and in the manufacture of engine components. Sawmill equipment and skidder operations were affected by a strike in British Columbia and the extended debate on U.S. imports of Canadian lumber, but there were encouraging signs at yearend, the company said. Reuter 
CANADIAN PACIFIC <CP> SEEKS BUYER FOR UNIT

Canadian Pacific Ltd said it retained Wood Gundy Inc to seek a buyer for Maple Leaf Mills Ltd of Toronto. The company said Maple Leaf had 1986 sales of 819 mln dlrs and an after tax profit of 16.3 mln dlrs. It is a diversified agriproducts company which produces and sells industrial and consumer flour, flour-based products and baked goods. It also operates a fully integrated poultry business and a rendering businesses, markets livestock and poultry feed and distributes grain through a network of country and terminal elevators. Reuter 
CANADIAN PACIFIC SEEKS BUYER FOR MAPLE LEAF UNIT

Canadian Pacific Ltd said it retained Wood Gundy Inc to seek a buyer for Maple Leaf Mills Ltd of Toronto. The company said Maple Leaf had 1986 sales of 819 mln Canadian dlrs and an after tax profit of 16.3 mln Canadian dlrs. It is a diversified agriproducts company which produces and sells industrial and consumer flour, flour-based products and baked goods. It also operates a fully integrated poultry business and a rendering business, markets livestock and poultry feed and distributes grain through a network of country and terminal elevators. Reuter 
KRUNG THAI BANK TO TAKE OVER SAYAM BANK

The state-owned Krung Thai Bank Ltd will start taking over state-owned Sayam Bank Ltd and complete the process in a year, Finance Minister Suthee Singhasaneh told a press conference. He said the takeover decision was made this week to stem the current heavy losses of Sayam and to avoid competition between the two state-owned institutions. The minister said some of the existing 30 Sayam Bank branches will be merged with their Krung Thai counterparts, while others will continue operating but under Krung Thai's name. Sayam Bank has existed since August 1984 when the Finance Ministry took over and re-named the Asia Trust Bank Ltd. Sayam president Waree Havanonda told reporters last month her bank posted a loss of more than 400 mln baht in 1986. At the end of 1985 the bank, with 13.8 billion baht of assets, was ranked 12th among Thailand's 16 local commercial banks. Waree said Sayam Bank was trying to recall about six to seven billion baht of loans extended by its previous private management and was taking legal action to collect another four to five billion baht of doubtful debts. Krung Thai is Thailand's third largest bank. REUTER 
RAINBOW AND EQUITICORP PLACE ULTRAMAR STAKE

New Zealand investment companies <Rainbow Corp Ltd> and <Equiticorp Holdings Ltd> have placed the majority of their joint shareholding in oil and gas conglomerate Ultramar PLC <UMAR.L> at prices up to 2.20 stg per share, the companies said in a statement. The companies said they had bought their 4.9 pct stake in Ultramar for a total of 50 mln N.Z. Dlrs through a joint venture company formed for that purpose in October. They said the joint venture made a profit of 15 mln N.Z. Dlrs on the deal, but they did say how many shares they had sold. No further details of the sale were available. REUTER 
GERMAN VEBA PLACEMENT SAID LIKELY EARLY NEXT WEEK

The placement of the German federal government's 25.6 pct stake in utility Veba AG <VEBG.F> would probably take place early next week, banking sources said. Share dealers said speculation had arisen in the early pre-bourse market that the Veba announcement could come as early as today. But one banking source, though confirming that most of the details had been worked out, said the chances of an announcement today were about nil. He had no price details. The 10 mln shares on offer are expected to bring a cash call in Germany for well over two billion marks. The share was around 253 marks today after a 6.50 drop to 252 yesterday. REUTER 
KLM EXPANDS TALKS WITH BRITISH AND COMMONWEALTH

KLM Royal Dutch Airways <KLM.AS> said it agreed to take full control of a partially owned Dutch-based parcel delivery service and will offer a minority stake in it to British and Commonwealth Shipping Plc <BCOM.L> KLM, seeking to strengthen its market position in the fast growing door-to-door delivery market, said it agreed with Dutch retailer Vendex International <VENN.AS> to take over Vendex's 50-pct in their jointly-owned courier, <XP System VOF>. Ownership of XP will now be brought into the talks started by KLM last week with British and Commonwealth for a one-third stake in the latter's <IML Air Services Group Ltd> courier. When announcing the negotiations with British and Commonwealth last week, KLM said buying a minority stake in IML could involve a convertible loan issue. A KLM spokeswoman said the Dutch flag carrier would now offer a minority stake in XP to British and Commonwealth in the negotiations on IML, but declined to elaborate on financial aspects of the talks. She said KLM would like the two courier services to cooperate in future and did not exclude a future merger between them to combine IML's strong world-wide network with XP's mainly European activities. XP System is based in the southern Dutch airport of Maastricht and has an annual turnover of 100 mln guilders. KLM, which is also negotiating with British and Commonwealth for a 15-pct stake in the latter's regional airline <Air U.K. Ltd>, says door-to-door delivery courier services are seeing substantially faster growth than traditional cargo activities. REUTER 
RAINBOW SAYS BRIERLEY UPSETTING PROGRESSIVE MERGER

<Rainbow Corp Ltd> said <Brierley Investments Ltd> (BIL) is trying to disrupt Rainbow's planned merger with <Progressive Enterprises Ltd>. Rainbow chairman Allan Hawkins said in a statement, "In our opinion BIL have deliberately tried to create anomalies in the market prices of Rainbow and Progressive shares since the merger was announced." The merger, announced in February, involves the formation of a new company, <Astral Pacific Corp Ltd>, which Rainbow and Progressive shareholders will enter into on a one-for-one share basis. Both boards have approved the merger. BIL has said it was the mystery bidder behind a recent stand in the market for three mln Progressive shares. "We simply regard Progressive Enterprises shares to be worth approximately twice as much as Rainbow shares and do not think the merger, as proposed, is soundly based," BIL chief executive Paul Collins said in an interview in the weekly National Business Review newspaper published today. Collins was not immediately available to respond directly to Hawkins' statement. Hawkins said the merger has been assessed by independent consultants and declared fair in all respects, with benefits to all shareholders. "We are not going to stand by while other parties distort the picture for their own strategic purposes and distract the market away from the real benefits of the merger," he said. "In our opinion, BIL's actions are clearly not designed to be in the long term interests of either Progressive or Rainbow shareholders," Hawkins said. Reuter 
AKZO BUYS RHONE-POULENC HOUSEHOLD UNITS

Dutch chemical group Akzo N.V. <AKZO.AS> said it agreed to take over household product subsidiaries of French group Rhone-Poulenc <RHON.PA> for an undisclosed sum. Under the agreement, Akzo will acquire the household product activities of the Lyons-based <Rhodic> and Remalard-based <Buhler-Fontaine> units of Rhone Poulenc. Together, these activities account for over 180 mln French francs in annual sales and employ 170, Akzo said. Akzo will integrate the firms, to be partially joined with its own French activities, in its consumer products division. REUTER 
SWISS BANKER WANTS BOND RATINGS, SHARE DISCLOSURE

A top Swiss banker called for an obligatory, continuous rating for all Swiss franc bonds and said he believed anyone buying more than five pct of a company should be made to declare their share. In comments at a news conference of <Vontobel Holding AG>, chairman Hans Vontobel said he believed it was up to the banks' own self-regulating bodies, such as the Swiss Admissions Board, to take such action before governmental bodies stepped in. A decline in the average quality of borrowers on the Swiss franc market and a debate on the use of registered shares to prevent takeovers have made both major issues among bankers. Vontobel noted that many borrowers already came to the market with ratings from the major U.S. Agencies, which were readily available to professionals through specialised information systems. "We should make this classification obligatory and publish it in places that are easily accessible to lay people," he said. The quick changing nature of the financial market meant these ratings should also be continually updated, he said. Vontobel also noted that recent years had seen companies, worried about takeovers, increasingly issuing registered shares and participation certificates rather than bearer shares. However, both types of issue had a drawback, he said. The recent attempt by Jacobs Suchard AG <JACZ.Z> to take over Hero Conserven Lenzburg <HERZ.Z> had shown the limits of a 1961 pledge by the banks not to sell registered shares to someone who was not eligible according to the company's statutes. Excessive issue of participation certificates, which do not carry voting rights, would also be contrary to the principle of greater democracy in the new share law before Parliament. "People buying, for example, more than five pct of a company's shares should be made to declare their purchase," he said. REUTER 
COOPER CANADA SAID IT RECEIVED TAKEOVER OFFERS

<Cooper Canada Ltd> said it has received takeover offers from "a number of companies." The company also said that "discussions are continuing, but no definitive arrangements have been made." It gave no further details. Reuter 
ITALY SETS RULES FOR COMPANY HOLDINGS IN BANKS

Companies will henceforth be able to own stakes in banks, but these should not constitute a "dominant" holding, an Italian government committee ruled. The Interministerial Committee on Credit and Savings, headed by Treasury Minister Giovanni Goria, said its decision reflected the "need to safeguard the principle of separation between banks and non-financial concerns." It did not quantify what might constitute a "dominant" holding. The committee also set conditions for the allocation of credits by banks to companies or individuals holding stakes in them, and stipulates conditions under which the Bank of Italy could exercise its powers of control in the case of stakes held by banks in companies or other banks. Under the ruling, credits given by banks or their subsidiaries to groups or individuals holding five pct or more of the bank's capital must not exceed defined limits. The value of credits given cannot exceed either one-fifth of the combined capital and reserves of the bank itself or two-fifths of the value of the stake owned in the bank by the group or individual concerned. Exceptions to these conditions include credits to concerns in which the bank itself has a stake and to branches of foreign banks. Credits made by foreign companies or banks to subsidiaries which have their legal base in Italy will also be excluded from the conditions. The Bank of Italy will request banks to insert rules in their statutes to ensure that companies or individuals holding five pct or more of the bank's capital are not given privileged treatment with regard to credit allocation and terms. With regard to bank holdings in companies, the Bank of Italy can exercise supervisory controls when information on a bank's consolidated activities show single shareholdings in a company or another bank of 25 pct or more, owned directly or indirectly. Such controls can also be exercised even if the stake held is below 25 pct if it can be considered a controlling interest. The controls will not be exercised in cases where the value of the bank's stake in a concern is below the lesser of two predefined limits. These limits are set at 15 billion lire or two pct of the total assets of the parent company of the shareholding bank. REUTER 
COGECO BUYS FM STATION, PLANS SHARE ISSUE

<Cogeco Inc> said it agreed to acquire 100 pct of Quebec City radio station CJMF-FM and will issue subordinated voting shares of the company to cover a portion of the purchase price. It said the purchase price and other terms of the transaction have not been disclosed. The transaction is subject to approval of the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission. Reuter 
GENERALE DE BANQUE, HELLER BUY FACTORING UNIT

Generale de Banque SA <GENB.BR> and <Heller Overseas Corp> of Chicago have each taken 50 pct stakes in factoring company SA Belgo-Factors, Generale de Banque said in a statement. It gave no financial details of the transaction. SA Belgo-Factors' turnover in 1986 was 17.5 billion Belgian francs. Reuter 
BLACK HAWK MINING CAN'T EXPLAIN STOCK RISE

<Black Hawk Mining Inc> said it knows of "no major activities" to account for the recent rise in the company's stock price. The shares rose 11 cts to 88 cts on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday. The company added that its application for its proposed acquisition of <Platinova Resources Ltd> and financings are still before the listing committee of the stock exchange. Reuter 
CHRYSLER'S <C> CREDIT CANADA PLACED ON CREDITWATCH

Canadian Bond Rating Service said it placed Chrysler Credit Canada Ltd, a subsidiary of Chrysler Corp <C>, on creditwatch until all financial details concerning the proposed acquisition of American Motors Corp <AMO> are finalized. The creditwatch affects Chrysler Credit Canada's short term notes, guaranteed notes, debentures and the recently completed 75 mln dlr 9.25 Eurobond issue due April 15, 1993. Canadian Bond Rating Service said that, based on facts currently available on the proposed transaction, it does not anticipate the necessity of a downgrade. Canadian Bond Rating Service said Chrysler Credit Canada short term notes are now rated A-2 (high) and guaranteed notes and debentures are rated B plus plus (high). Reuter 
AUSTRALIAN OFFER FOR SAN MIGUEL SHARES

Diversified investment company, <Ariadne Australia Ltd>, has offered 3.8 billion pesos for 38 mln shares in the Philippine brewing firm <San Miguel>, a Manila newspaper reported. The Sunday Times quoted a letter sent yesterday to President Corazon Aquino from Ariadne's chairman, New Zealander Bruce Judge, that he was offering cash equivalent to five pct of the nation's yearly budget to buy the shares from the government. The presidential office and Ariadne representatives in Manila were not available for comment on the report. The shares are the entire block seized by the government from the United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) on suspicion that the real owner was Eduardo Cojuangco, the former chairman of San Miguel and UCPB and a close associate of deposed president Ferdinand Marcos. The 38 mln shares consist of 24 mln class A stock and 14 mln class B shares. Government officials have said earlier that the more valuable class A shares would not be sold to foreigners. The offer values each share at 100 pesos -- the price at which the Philippine Social Security System suggested it might buy eight mln class A shares last week. "Judge's offer of 3.8 billion pesos is about five pct of the Philippines' yearly budget," Ariadne's Philippine agent Domingo Panganiban was quoted as telling reporters yesterday. "Mr Judge's objective in this investment is to make his corporation's management expertise available to San Miguel so that the company's assets can be fully utilised." San Miguel, the country's largest brewer, is also one of the major manufacturers of grocery lines. Panganiban is quoted as saying that San Miguel could tap food and liquor distribution lines in Australia, Britain, the U.S., New Zealand and Hong Kong through <Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, a listed Australian firm in which it has 30 pct equity. Ariadne, with about one billion dlrs in assets and turnover of about two billion, has interests also in mining, real estate and agricultural products. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN PLANS PHILIPPINE BRANCH FOR TAKEOVER

The Australia based <Ariadne Australia Ltd>, plans to set up a branch in the Philippines to fulfill a prerequisite for the takeover of the Philippine brewing firm, <San Miguel Corp>, a Hong Kong newspaper said. The Hong Kong Economic Journal quoted a spokesman of Australian stock broker Jacksons Ltd as saying that <Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, a listed Australian firm of which Ariadne owns a 30 pct stake, is planning a branch in the Philippines. He added Jacksons is arranging an offer by Barwon to pay a total 3.8 billion pesos in cash for 38 mln San Miguel shares. Barwon is offering 100 pesos each for 24 mln class A San Miguel shares and 14 mln class B stock. But the Jacksons spokesman noted that the more valuable A stock would only be sold to Filipinos or companies registered in the Philippines. He said Barwon has approached the Philippine government which seized the block of shares from the United Coconut Planters Bank, which is believed to be linked with the country's deposed President Ferdinand Marcos. He added he expects a deal to be concluded between Barwon and the Philippine Government in 14 days as it is the only offer in cash, the newspaper reported. Hong Kong Economic Journal also noted stock market rumours that <Neptunia Corp>, a Hong Kong registered company which controlled by San Miguel's president Andres Soriano, is the other party keen on the block of San Miguel shares. The Philippine's Commission on Good Government ruled last May against a move of Neptunia to acquire 33 mln San Miguel shares controlled by the brewery firm's former chairman Eduardo Cojuangco, who is also chairman of United Coconut. Commissioner Ramon Diaz said at the time the government would not allow a subsidiary to buy into a parent firm, adding San Miguel could have offered the shares to other parties. The Manila newspaper Sunday Times published a letter sent yesterday to President Corazon Aquino from Ariadne's chairman, New Zealander Bruce Judge, that he was offering cash equivalent to five pct of the nation's yearly budget to buy the shares from the government. "Judge's offer of 3.8 billion pesos is about five pct of the Philippines' yearly budget," Ariadne's Philippine agent Domingo Panganiban was quoted as telling reporters yesterday. Spokesmen of Ariadne, Jacksons and Neptunia were not available for comment, nor any officials of the Philippines. <San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a Hong Kong listed company which is 69.65 pct held by Neptunia on behalf of San Miguel Corp, closed 40 cents higher at 15.50 H.K. Dlrs on Friday. REUTER 
SANTOS BIDS FOR OIL AND GAS COMPANY TMOC RESOURCES

Cooper Basin oil producer Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it will bid 4.00 dlrs a share for the 96.03 pct it does not already hold in diversified oil and gas company <TMOC Resources Ltd>. Santos said the bid values TMOC at 248.5 mln dlrs. It said it already holds 1.91 mln of TMOC's 25 cent par shares. TMOC held interests outside the Cooper Basin region of South Australia and Queensland and the acquisition would further the Santos objective of developing as a broadly based oil and gas company with interests outside its existing base in the Cooper Basin, the company said in a statement. Santos said TMOC holds several important domestic oil and gas production, exploration and pipeline interests. In the Northern Territory it has a 43.75 pct stake in and operates the Mereenie oil and gas field in the Amadeus Basin and owns 32 pct of <N.T. Gas Pty Ltd>, owner and operator of the Alice Springs to Darwin gas pipeline. In Queensland, TMOC has extensive interests in the Surat Basin, including the 100 pct owned and operated Moonie oil field and 33 pct of the Boxleigh gas field. TMOC owns 80 pct of the <Moonie Pipeline Co Pty Ltd> which owns and operates the Moonie to Brisbane oil pipeline. TMOC also holds 25 pct of the Jackson to Moonie oil pipeline, 20 pct owned by Santos. Output from the Naccowlah block, 40 pct owned by Santos, provides the bulk of the throughput of both pipelines. TMOC has exploration interests in a number of areas in the Amadeus, Surat, Eromanga and Canning basins. It also has oil and gas interests in Britain's North Sea, Ecuador, and the U.S., Along with gold and base metal production through its associate <Paringa Mining and Exploration Co Plc>, Santos said. REUTER 
BELL RESOURCES BOOSTS STAKE IN BHP

<Bell Resources Ltd> said it has executed an underwriting agreement with <Equiticorp Tasman Ltd> to acquire 57.6 mln ordinary shares in The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S> for 540 mln dlrs. Bell said in a statement that it now holds 29.93 pct of BHP's 1.2 billion shares. REUTER 
ARIADNE UNIT CONFIRMS BID FOR SAN MIGUEL

Ariadne group unit <Barwon Farmlands Ltd> confirmed it offered 3.8 billion pesos in cash for the 38 mln shares of Philippine brewing company <San Miguel Corp>. The Australia-based Barwon, 30 pct owned by New Zealander Bruce Judge's Ariadne group, said in a statement released in Hong Kong that a formal offer had been made to the Philippines government, which holds the shares. It said it was confident the offer will be reviewed favourably. Newspapers in Manila and Hong Kong reported at the weekend that an offer had been made. Barwon said it was represented by Australian stockbroker <Jacksons Ltd>, which forwarded a formal offer to Philippine President Corazon Aquino of 100 pesos for each of the 38.1 mln A and B shares of San Miguel. The Philippine government seized the shares, which represent a 31 pct stake in the brewery firm, from the <United Coconut Planters Bank>, alleged by the government to be linked with the country's deposed President Ferdinand Marcos. The Barwon statement said a deal is expected to be concluded between Barwon and the Philippines government in 14 days. Barwon also said it made recommendations to the government on how it could purchase the class A shares, which can only be held by a Philippine national or a firm which is at least 60 pct held by a member of the country. It did not elaborate. The Hong Kong Economical Journal quoted a spokesman of Jacksons as saying Barwon plans to set up a branch in the Philippines to meet the criteria. <San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a locally listed firm 69.65 pct held by San Miguel's <Neptunia Corp> affiliate, was last traded at 16.30 H.K. Dlrs against 15.50 dlrs on Friday. REUTER 
COOPER SAYS OFFER MUST INCLUDE CLASS A SHARES

<Cooper Canada Ltd> said it told those who have expressed interest in acquiring control of the company that it would entertain no offer unless it were made to holders both of class A non-voting shares and voting common. Reuter 
TMOC TELLS SHAREHOLDERS NOT TO ACCEPT SANTOS BID

<TMOC Resources Ltd> told shareholders not to accept Santos Ltd's <STOS.S> 4.00 dlr a share takeover bid pending advice from Macquarie Hill Samuel Corporate Services, its corporate advisor. It said in a statement the Santos bid was below the underlying value of the shares as assessed by Macquarie Hill Samuel at between 4.08 dlrs and 4.72. TMOC, formerly the Moonie Oil Co Ltd, said the valuation was made in response to an earlier and still current bid of 2.55 dlrs a share by <Elders Resources Ltd>. Elders Resources holds 19.9 pct of TMOC's 62 mln shares. TMOC said it did not know Elders Resources' response to the bid or that of its other major shareholder the <Australian Gas Light Co>. The latter has a 10.5 pct stake in TMOC. <Avalon Corp> of the U.S. Has a 17 pct stake in TMOC through an option agreement. Santos, which is 15 pct owned by Elders Resources, yesterday said its bid valued TMOC at 248.5 mln dlrs. TMOC said today this was not a premium over the share price before the bid and that TMOC had traded at up to 4.06 dlrs a share in the last two weeks. TMOC said in the statement that the bid was unsolicited and that Santos had only a 3.07 pct stake despite paying up to four dlrs a share on-market. TMOC has oil and gas interests and pipelines which complement the operations of Santos, the major Cooper Basin oil and gas producer. TMOC shares today closed five cents up at 4.15 dlrs on turnover of 182,000 shares while Santos, due to release its profit result today, rose eight cents to 4.50 dlrs on volume of 245,000 shares. REUTER 
CHRYSLER, LAMBORGHINI STILL IN JOINT VENTURE TALKS

Joint venture talks that could lead to Chrysler Corp <C> taking a stake in Italian car maker <Automobili Lamborghini SpA> are continuing, a Lamborghini spokesman said. He told Reuters the two companies are discussing a number of topics ranging from "a joint venture in the production area to Chrysler becoming a shareholding partner" in the Italian firm. The spokesman declined to comment on whether Chrysler was interested in acquiring control of Lamborghini or if the two sides were close to an accord. He said the two companies are discussing the possibility of jointly developing a sports car aimed primarily at the U.S. Market. The spokesman said Chrysler officials in Detroit had already visited Lamborghini's production plant in Bologna and another visit may be scheduled. Lamborghini, which is controlled by the Mimran Group of Switzerland, broke even last year on sales of 29 billion lire, he said. Chrysler also holds a 15 pct interest in Italian sports car producer <Alfieri Maserati Spa>. Reuter 
CP AIR, PACIFIC WESTERN AIRLINES SET NEW NAME

<Pacific Western Airlines Corp> said the airline resulting from the previously announced merger of its Pacific Western Airlines Ltd unit and Canadian Pacific Air Lines Ltd would be named Canadian Airlines International Ltd, effective April 26. Pacific Western said the two airlines' services and schedules would also be integrated on April 26. It previously appointed management for the new airline. The new airline, Canada's second largest, will have 81 planes flying to 89 destinations in 13 countries. Pacific Western recently acquired Canadian Pacific Airlines for 300 mln dlrs from Canadian Pacific Ltd <CP>. Reuter 
OLIVETTI DOES NOT EXCLUDE STAKE IN SGS-THOMSON

Ing C Olivetti EC SpA <OLIV.M> does not exclude the possibility of investing in a semiconductor venture currently under discussion between Italy's <STET - Societa Finanziaria Telefonica P.A.> and France's Thomson-CSF <TCSF.PA>, an Olivetti spokesman said. He said that if Olivetti were approached by the two partners involved and the financial conditions of any proposal were considered interesting, the company did not exclude the possibility of investing in the venture. However, Olivetti had made no decision on any such investment and did not have at its disposal information to evaluate such a move. Stet and Thomson said last Thursday they were negotiating an accord involving their respective subsidiaries <SGS Microelettronica SpA> and <Thomson Semiconducteurs> in the civil semiconductor field. They said the accord, once concluded, would be put for approval to the French and Italian authorities. The Olivetti spokesman was responding to a Reuters query about Italian press reports today saying that Olivetti might participate in the venture with a two pct stake. REUTER 
NESTLE TO ACQUIRE NABISCO CANADA BUSINESSES

Swiss-based <Nestle S.A.>'s Nestle Enterprises Ltd unit said it signed a letter of intent to acquire <Nabisco Brands Ltd>'s Club, Melrose, Dickson and Chase and Sanborn businesses for undisclosed terms. Nestle said the final agreement, subject to required approvals, would be signed shortly. The businesses involved in the deal provide products to hotels, restaurants and other parts of the food and beverage industry. Nabisco is 80 pct-owned by RJR Nabisco Inc <RJR>. Reuter 
FERRUZZI DEAL WITH CPC WORTH 630 MLN DLRS

The Ferruzzi Group's holding company Agricola Finanziara SpA will pay 630 mln dlrs for the European corn wet milling business of CPC International Inc under the agreement reached in principle between the two companies, a statement by Ferruzzi released by its Brussels office said. When CPC announced the agreement yesterday in New York, it said only that the price would be in excess of 600 mln dlrs. Ferruzzi said the deal is subject to agreement on several clauses of the contract and needs government authorisations. It said the deal would involve 13 starch factories employing about 5,000 people in eight European Community countries plus facilities and commercial operations in other EC states. The factories have a capacity to produce the equivalent of 1.6 mln tonnes of starch in starch and by-products a year, or about one third of EC production, from about 2.7 mln tonnes of cereals. Ferruzzi said the acquisition of these assets would extend its presence in the European agro-industrial industry both geographically and in terms of products. It said it is already the principal EC producer of sugar and of soya oil and cake, and the major cereal trader. It noted that EC output of isoglucose is subject to maximum quotas, of which CPC currently holds a 25 pct share, and said it foresaw an increase in other industrial uses of starch in the future, notably in the production of ethanol for fuel. Raul Gardini, president of the Ferruzzi Group, said the present management of the CPC milling business will be asked to remain in their posts. REUTER 
RAINBOW LIFTS PROGRESSIVE STAKE TO 52 PCT

<Rainbow Corp Ltd> said it has lifted its stake in supermarket group <Progressive Enterprises Ltd> to 52 pct from 44 pct. It said in a statement it has bought an extra 9.4 mln shares at prices ranging from 3.80 N.Z. Dlrs to 4.80. Progressive is currently the subject of both a proposed merger with Rainbow and a full takeover bid from <Brierley Investments Ltd> (BIL). The BIL bid, launched on Monday, is at 4.20 dlrs a share. The Rainbow merger involves shareholders in both Rainbow and Progressive being issued shares in a new company, <Astral Pacific Corp Ltd>, on a one-for-one basis. Rainbow chief executive Craig Heatley said, "In our opinion BIL's actions over the last few days have been undertaken for their own strategic purposes which conflict with the desire of both companies to merge their interests." BIL has said it is against the merger because it sees Progressive shares as being worth twice as as much as Rainbow's. Progressive traded today at 4.42, Rainbow at 3.66 and BIL at 4.30 at the end of morning trading on the New Zealand Stock Exchange. REUTER 
E.D. And F. MAN TO BUY INTO HONG KONG FIRM

The U.K. Based commodity house E.D. And F. Man Ltd and Singapore's Yeo Hiap Seng Ltd jointly announced that Man will buy a substantial stake in Yeo's 71.1 pct held unit, Yeo Hiap Seng Enterprises Ltd. Man will develop the locally listed soft drinks manufacturer into a securities and commodities brokerage arm and will rename the firm Man Pacific (Holdings) Ltd. REUTER 
TIMMINCO ACQUIRES UNIVERSAL ADHESIVES

<Timminco Ltd> said it acquired Universal Adhesives Inc, of Memphis, for undisclosed terms, in a move to expand Timminco's operations into the United States. The company said Universal Adhesives, with five U.S. plants, has annual sales of 12 mln U.S. dlrs, which will double Timminco's presence in the North American adhesives market. Timminco said Universal Adhesives will complement the company's Canadian-based industrial adhesives division and is a key step in its long-term goal for expansion in the specialty chemical field. Reuter 
BRIERLEY OFFER FOR PROGRESSIVE STILL VALID

<Brierley Investments Ltd>, (BIL), said its offer of 4.20 N.Z. Dlrs per share for supermarket group <Progressive Enterprises Ltd> still stands, although <Rainbow Corp Ltd> said today it has 52 pct of Progressive. BIL said in a statement it will review events on a daily basis. Rainbow announced earlier that it had increased its stake in Progressive to 52 pct from 44 pct through the purchase of 9.4 mln shares at between 3.80 and 4.80 N.Z. Dlrs per share. BIL chief executive Paul Collins said: "All Rainbow has done is to outlay a substantial amount of cash to purchase shares from parties who presumably were supportive of the merger." Rainbow has proposed a merger with Progressive to form a new company, <Astral Pacific Corp Ltd>. Under the merger, shareholders in both Progressive and Rainbow will be issued shares in the new company on a one-for-one basis. "Quite simply, Rainbow should now bid for the balance of Progressive Enterprises at 4.80 N.Z. Dlrs per share," Collins said. Reuter 
COMMERZBANK TO ACQUIRE AND FLOAT LINOTYPE

Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> said it will acquire <Linotype GmbH>, Europe's largest manufacturer of type-setting and printing communications technology from Allied Signal Inc <ALD.N> and float off the shares in the company. Commerzbank declined to say how much it had paid for Linotype. Linotype's group turnover in 1986 rose 15 pct to more than 500 mln marks, the bank said. The group's net return on capital was seven pct. Reuter 
NOVAMIN IN PROPOSED BUYOUT BY BREAWATER <BWRLF>

<Novamin Inc> said it received a proposed takeover offer from Breakwater Resources Ltd involving a swap of one Breakwater share for two Novamin common shares. It said the proposal also called for conversion of outstanding Novamin warrants into Breakwater common shares on the same basis, provided the exercise price was paid by the warrant holders. Novamin, a mineral exploration company, said directors would meet next Tuesday to deal with the proposal, which, it said, was subject to approval by Breakwater directors. Reuter 
CONSOLIDATED NOREX TO ACQUIRE TRIWEB RESOURCES

<Consolidated Norex Resources Ltd> said it agreed to acquire all issued and outstanding shares of Triweb Resources Ltd, a privately held oil and gas company with land holdings and production base in Alberta and Saskatchewan. The company said specific details relating to purchase price and other terms will be released on closing of the transaction, expected by May 15. Reuter 
C-I-L ACQUIRING TRIMAC'S STAKE IN TRICIL

<C-I-L Inc> said it would exercise its right to acquire <Trimac Ltd>'s stake in their jointly owned Tricil Ltd for 91 mln dlrs, with closing expected May 22. C-I-L added that the final price could be less, however, depending on an Ontario court ruling resulting from a previously reported legal action launched by C-I-L. Mississauga, Ontario-based Tricil is a waste management company with operations in the U.S. and Canada. Reuter 
BELGIUM PLANS TO OUTLAW INSIDER TRADING

A Belgian finance ministry spokesman said new rules planned on insider trading would enable offenders to be fined and imprisoned for up to a year, and be compelled to forfeit gains. The new rules require parliamentary approval, and government sources said it was unclear when they would come into force. Insider trading is currently not an offence in this country. The cabinet approved a separate bill that analysts said includes provisions to make more difficult the build-up of major new stakes in Belgian companies. The bill would make obligatory the declaration of major stakes in companies quoted on the bourse with own resources of more than 200 mln francs. The Minister for Economic Affairs would need to be informed in advance of deals under which foreign interests planned to buy a new stake of more than ten pct of the voting shares in a large Belgian company, or to increase an existing stake to more than 20 pct. REUTER 
COMMISSION APPROVES RAINBOW/PROGRESSIVE MERGER

The Commerce Commission has approved a proposed merger between <Progressive Enterprises Ltd> and <Rainbow Corp Ltd>, Rainbow said in a statement. The merger involves the formation of a new company <Astral Pacific Corp Ltd> which will acquire all shares in both companies on a one-for-one share exchange basis. Rainbow earlier this week lifted its stake in Progressive to 52 pct from 44 pct. The statement said a new private company, <Transcapital Corp Ltd>, fully owned by Rainbow directors Craig Heatley, Gary Lane and Ken Wikeley, will purchase this stake for an undisclosed cash sum. The Commission has also approved Transcapital acquiring up to 45 pct of Astral Pacific, Rainbow said. <Brierley Investments Ltd>, which has been a frequent critic of the merger, launched a full bid for Progressive at 4.20 N.Z. Dlrs a share last Monday. REUTER 
FERRUZZI PARIS UNIT SEEN ABSORBING CPC PURCHASE

Sources close to Italy's <Gruppo Ferruzzi> said <European Sugar (France)>, a French company owned by Ferruzzi, would take over control of <CPC Industrial Division>, the corn wet milling business acquired by the Italian group earlier this week from CPC International Inc <CPC>. The sources told Reuters that European Sugar, owned by Ferruzzi subsidiary Eridania Zuccherifici Nazionali SpA <ERDI.MI>, planned to seek a listing on the Paris bourse and make a share offering there. CPC International announced Tuesday it had agreed in principle to sell its European corn wet millng business to Ferruzzi. The deal is worth 630 mln dlrs. Reuter 
MCINTYRE MINES <MP> COMPLETES UNIT SALE

McIntyre Mines Ltd said it completed the previously announced sale of all shares of wholly owned Smoky River Coal Ltd and certain related assets to Smoky River Holdings Ltd for a nominal cash consideration. McIntyre did not specify the cash amount of the sale. Smoky River Holdings is an Alberta company controlled by Michael Henson, former president and chief executive of McIntyre, the company said. McIntyre said it retained an unspecified royalty interest in Smoky River Coal based on net operating cash flows from the company's coal properties. McIntyre also said it provided a three mln dlr last recourse letter of credit to the Alberta government for Smoky River Coal's reclamation obligations. The credit letter expires either when Smoky River completes three mln dlrs of reclaiming activities or December 31, 1992, which ever occurs first. McIntyre said it also remains contingently liable for certain obligations now totalling about seven mln dlrs, which will reduce over time as Smoky River continues to operate. McIntyre's principal asset continues to be its 14 pct interest in Falconbridge Ltd <FALCF>. Reuter 
CTC DEALER TO APPEAL CANADIAN TIRE DECISION

CTC Dealer Holdings Ltd said it would appeal a previously reported Ontario court ruling upholding an Ontario Securities Commission decision to block CTC's bid for 49 pct of <Canadian Tire Corp Ltd> common shares. CTC, a group of Canadian Tire dealers, added that it also extended its tender offer to March 31 and was seeking approval to extend its bid while the appeal court heard the case. It said Alfred and David Billes, two of Canadian Tire's controlling shareholders, backed the appeal and would seek leave to appeal while third controlling shareholder Martha Billes supported the appeal but would not join an appeal motion. Reuter 
ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS HAS 10 PCT OF NORTHERN STAR

<Northern Star Holdings Ltd> said Britain's <Associated Newspapers Holdings Plc> will hold 9.99 pct of its enlarged issued capital after applying to acquire 15.9 mln shares in its recently announced placement. Associated was one of the major investors participating in the previously reported placement of 128.9 mln shares at 3.75 dlrs each, Northern Star said in a statement. The northern New South Wales regional group is emerging as a national media force in the wake of the industry restructuring sparked by the News Corp Ltd <NCPA.S> takeover of the Herald and Weekly Times Ltd <HWTA.S> group. Associated now holds 3.3 pct of Northern Star's current issued capital, a company official said. As previously reported, Northern Star is raising 623 mln dlrs through placements and a subsequent one-for-four rights issue at 2.95 dlrs a share. Of the placements, 56.9 mln shares will go to a number of investors and 72 mln to investment group <Westfield Capital Corp Ltd>, which arranged Northern Star's purchase of News Corp's television assets, three newspapers and three radio stations for 842 mln dlrs. Westfield will increase its stake in Northern Star to about 45 pct from 20 as a result. REUTER 
ALCAN AUSTRALIA BIDS FOR ALCAN NEW ZEALAND

Alcan Australia Ltd <AL.S> said it will make a 39.3 mln N.Z. Dlr cash bid for all the issued shares of <Alcan New Zealand Ltd> at 1.80 N.Z. Dlrs each with a four-for-three share alternative. Both are 70 pct owned by Canada's Alcan Aluminium Ltd <AL> which will take the share swap option, Alcan Australia deputy chairman Jeremy Davis said in a statement. The remainder of Alcan New Zealand's totalled issued 21.84 mln shares are broadly held while Alcan Australia's are primarily held by institutions. Alcan NZ last traded at 1.55 NZ dlrs, while Alcan Australia today ended four cents down at 1.15 dlrs. Davis said the offer, which is subject to approval by the New Zealand Overseas Investment Commission, was a response to the integration of the two countries' markets under the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations treaty. Alcan New Zealand shareholders who accept the offer would also receive the final dividend of 10 cents a share normally payable on May 27. Alcan Australia would invite New Zealand representation to its board and would apply to list its shares on the New Zealand Stock exchange, Davis said. REUTER 
HENKEL SELLS HAMBURG OIL AND FATS SUBSIDIARY

Applied chemicals group Henkel KGaA <HNKG.F> said it is selling its Hamburg vegetable oil and fats subsidiary Noblee und Thoerl GmbH to Oelmuehle Hamburg AG. A company spokesman declined to give the purchase price. Noblee, a supplier of specialised refined oils and fats to the food processing industry, had turnover of 161 mln marks last year. A Henkel statement said the divestment was part of the company's strategy of concentrating on its core businesses. For Oelmuehle, the acquisition of Noblee means access to new markets, the statement added. REUTER 
BRIERLEY BIDS 4.35 DOLLARS/SHARE FOR PROGRESSIVE

<Brierley Investments Ltd> (BIL) launched a full takeover bid for the supermarket group <Progressive Enterprises Ltd> at 4.35 dlrs a share. BIL said in a statement the offer is conditional on minimum acceptances totalling 30 mln shares, just under 25 pct of the 120.4 mln Progressive shares on issue. Progressive is currently involved in a proposed merger with <Rainbow Corp Ltd>. Rainbow earlier this week raised its stake in Progressive to 52 pct. BIL opposes the Rainbow merger and analysts say BIL needs a 25 pct stake in Progressive to prevent it occurring. The merger involves shareholders in Progressive and Rainbow both receiving shares in a new company <Astral Pacific Corp Ltd> on a one-for-one exchange basis. The BIL bid is higher than the 4.20 dlrs BIL said it would offer when it first announced on Monday it would make a full bid for Progressive, and it follows much public debate between BIL and Rainbow. BIL Chief Executive Paul Collins said last week that he opposes the Rainbow/Progressive merger because BIL sees Progressive shares as being worth twice as much as Rainbow's. BIL has not disclosed how many Progressive shares it holds. Rainbow has said the merger is soundly based. Chairman Allan Hawkins said last week that BIL's actions were aimed only at dirsrupting the merger and were not in the interests of Progressive shareholders. Both Rainbow's and Progressive's boards have approved the merger proposal. It has also been approved by the Commerce Commission, but BIL's bid is still subject to the Commission's scrutiny. Progressive shares ended at 4.35 dlrs, Rainbow at 3.42 and BIL at 4.17 at the close of New Zealand Stock Exchange trading today. REUTER 
UNION MINIERE TAKES STAKE IN PANCONTINENTAL

<Union Miniere SA> said in a statement that it has acquired an eight pct interest in Pancontinental Mining Ltd <PANA.S> for a sum equivalent to 1.2 billion Belgian francs. Pancontinental operates gold and coal mines in Australia and natural gas and oil fields in Canada. Union Miniere said the location of its interest within the Pancontinental group will be decided later. It did not elaborate. Union Miniere is a wholly owned subsidiary of Societe Generale de Belgique <BELB.BR>. REUTER 
ELDERS EXTENDS OFFER FOR CARLING O'KEEFE <CKB>

<Elders IXL Ltd>, of Australia, said wholly owned IXL Holdings Canada Inc extended its previously announced offer to acquire all outstanding shares of Carling O'Keefe Ltd to midnight April 23, 1987, from March 25. The 18-dlr-a-share offer is being extended for Elders to obtain Canadian federal government approval for the acquisition of control of Carling. Elders said its application to Investment Canada is still being processed under normal review procedures. Up to March 26, 19,962,000 shares or 92 pct of Carling's stock has been deposited under the offer, Elders said. Elders also said it arranged for a credit facility of up to 390 mln dlrs, shared equally between two Canadian banks, which would be available to acquire shares under the offer. Reuter 
HUDSON'S BAY TO SELL WHOLESALE UNIT

<Hudson's Bay Co> said it signed a letter of intent to sell its Hudson's Bay Wholesale unit to a private investment group. Terms were not disclosed. The company said Normal Paul, a member of the private investment group, will head Hudson's Bay Wholesale management. The unit's existing management group, headed by Ron McArthur, will also participate in ownership, the company said without elaborating. The wholesale unit is a major distributor of tobacco, confectionary and other products through 34 wholesale and 28 vending branches in Canada. 1986 sales were 798 mln dlrs. Hudson's Bay said the sale of its wholesaling unit is part of a program to concentrate financial and management resources on its core business of department stores and real estate. Reuter 
SOUTHAM TO SELL 49 PCT INTEREST IN BRANDON SUN

<Southam Inc> said it agreed to sell its 49 pct interest in Sun Publishing Co Ltd, which publishes The Brandon Sun, to majority shareholder publisher Lewis D. Whitehead. Terms were not disclosed. Southam said the proposed sale resulted from an offer made by Whitehead, whose family has had majority control of the newspaper since 1905. The Brandon Sun has daily circulation of 19,100. Reuter 
FRENCH MINISTERIAL MEETING HELD ON CGCT SALE

Finance Minister Edouard Balladur, Industry Minister Alain Madelin and Telecommunications Minister Gerard Longuet met for more than an hour today to discuss the imminent sale of the French telephone switching group <Cie Generale de Constructions Telephoniques>, a spokesman for Longuet said. No decision was announced as a result of the meeting, and the French government has given itself until the end of next month to choose between the candidates. The sale of CGCT, which controls 16 pct of France's telephone market, has been priced at 500 mln francs, and three international consortia are battling for the right to buy it. West Germany's Siemens AG <SIEG.F> has teamed up with the French group Jeumont-Schneider, in opposition to a bid from the U.S. Group ATT <T.N> and the Dutch Philips Telecommunications BV <PGLO.AS> in association with the French telecommunications firm SAT <Societe Anonyme de Telecommunications>. A third bid has been lodged by Sweden's AB LM Ericsson <ERIC.ST>, allied with French defence electronics group Matra <MATR.PA> and Bouygues SA <BOUY.PA>. Reuter 
BTR NYLEX RAISES OFFER FOR BORG-WARNER AUSTRALIA

<BTR Nylex Ltd> said it will increase its takeover offer for Borg-Warner Corp's <BOR> listed unit, <Borg-Warner (Australia) Ltd> (BWA) to five dlrs each from four dlrs for all issued ordinary and preference shares. The new offer values the diversified auto parts manufacturer's 27.22 mln ordinary shares and 13.22 mln first participating preference shares at 202.2 mln dlrs. Formal documents will be sent to shareholders as soon as possible, it said in a brief statement. BTR Nylex, which manufactures rubber and plastic products, first bid for BWA in late January. As previously reported, Borg-Warner Corp, which owns 65 pct of BWA's ordinary shares and 100 pct of the preferences, advised a month ago that it would not accept the offer. This meant BTR Nylex's 50.1 pct acceptance condition could not be met, BWA said in a statement reporting its parent's decision. BWA advised shareholders to ignore the offer and said other parties had expressed interest in bidding for it. But no other bid has yet emerged. BTR Nylex is a 59.5 pct-owned listed subsidiary of Britain's BTR Plc <BTRX.LON>. REUTER 
WALLENBERG GROUP RAISES STAKE IN ERICSSON

Sweden's Wallenberg group said it raised its holding in telecommunications maker Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson <eric.St.> to 37.5 of the voting rights from 28.9 pct. The move by the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, one of the institutions at the core of the group of companies formed by the late industrialist Marcus Wallenberg, further consolidated group control over one of its key firms, analysts said. The foundation now controls 14.1 pct of Ericsson's voting rights with 22.3 pct held by the group's investment companies <AB Investor> and <Forvaltnings AB Providentia>. The move comes after the Wallenberg group fought off a hostile takeover bid earlier this month for match and packaging conglomerate Swedish Match AB <smbs.St> from arms and chemical concern Nobel Industrier AB <NOBL.ST> by increasing its stake in Swedish Match to 85 pct from 33 pct. REUTER 
MANNESMANN BUYS INDIRECT MAJORITY STAKE IN SACHS

Mannesmann AG <MMWG.F> said it has reached a series of agreements giving it an indirect majority stake in the <Fichtel und Sachs AG> car parts group. The takeover is contingent on approval from the Federal Cartel Office in West Berlin, a spokesman said, adding that Mannesmann was confident the authorities would not block the purchase. Mannesmann is buying 75 pct of <MEC Sachs Vermoegensholding> which owns 37.5 pct of Sachs AG, which in turn holds 96.5 pct of Fichtel und Sachs. The MEC shares will be bought from the granddaughters of the firm's founder. Mannesmann is also purchasing a 25.01 pct stake in Fichtel und Sachs from Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> and has an option to buy the bank's remaining 10 pct stake, a company statement said. In addition to these firm agreements, Mannesmann is also talking with the state-owned steel group Salzgitter AG <SALG.H> on buying its 24.98 pct stake in Fichtel und Sachs. This would give Mannesmann around 75 pct of Fichtel und Sachs. Salzgitter said it decided to give up its own original plans to seek a majority stake in Sachs after holding talks with the government in Bonn. Earlier this month Mannesmann disclosed that it might want a majority stake in Sachs after previously saying it was seeking to buy only a minority holding in the company, which has annual turnover of 2.2 billion marks and employs 17,000. The acquisition is part of Mannesmann's efforts to diversify into high-technology areas and away from its previous reliance on steel and pipe-making. More A spokesman for the Federal Statistics Office later said the anti-cartel authorities would probably rule on the takeover in the new few weeks. REUTER 
SKANSKA TO TAKE STAKE IN CANADIAN FIRM

Swedish construction and real estate company Skanska AB <skbs.St.> said it will sell its 49 pct holding in Canadian building firm <Canadian Foundation Company Ltd> to rival <Banister Continental Ltd>. A company spokeswoman told Reuters Skanska will receive Banister shares as payment, giving the Swedish group 15 pct of the stock in the expanded Banister firm. She said Skanska will also be appointing two board members to the Canadian company. REUTER 
CANADIAN WORLDWIDE ENERGY BUYS TRITON<OIL> UNIT

<Canadian Worldwide Energy Ltd> said it acquired Triton Energy Corp's wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, Triton Petroleum Ltd, for the issue of 3.75 mln common shares of Canadian Worldwide, subject to regulatory approvals. The company said the transaction will increase Triton Energy's holding in Canadian Worldwide to 13.25 mln shrs or a 60 pct fully diluted interest from 9.5 mln shares. Triton Petroleum's assets consist of proven oil reserves of 1.3 mln barrels, exploratory acreage, and unspecified working capital and a significant tax loss carryforward. Canadian Worldwide said it is optimistic the Triton Petroleum Ltd acquisition will strengthen its financial and production base and permit acceleration of its conventional oil exploration program. Reuter 
MOBIL FRANCE TO TAKE 10 PCT STAKE IN PRIMAGAZ

Mobil Corp's <MOB> Mobil Oil Francaise unit said it will take a stake of about 10 pct in the French butane and propane gas distribution company <Primagaz> in exchange for the transfer to Primagaz of Mobil's small and medium bulk propane activity. Small and medium bulk propane sales totalled 55,000 tonnes in 1986 and the transfer will increase total business of Primagaz by about 12 pct, equal to 32,000 extra customers. A Primagas spokesman said Mobil will take the stake by means of a capital increase, terms of which have not yet been established. 
NOBEL'S BOFORS TO SELL ITS SINGAPORE HOLDING

Nobel Industries Sweden SA <NOBL.ST> said its arms subsidiary, <AB Bofors>, plans to sell its 40 pct stake in <Allied Ordnance Co of Singapore Ltd> because of its part in weapons exports which contravene Swedish law. "The events we have uncovered are unacceptable and highly regrettable incidents in our company's history," Nobel chairman Lars-Erik Thunholm told a news conference. Nobel managing director Anders Carlberg said an internal inquiry has revealed an extensive network of international arms smuggling. Reuter 
CITY RESOURCES <CCIMF> TO SELL PROPERTY STAKE

City Resources Ltd said it has agreed in principle to sell a 50 pct interest in a group of mineral properties in the southwest Pacific to a buyer it did not name for 30 mln Canadian dlrs. The company said a preliminary estimate of the geological resources of one of the properties to a depth of 200 meters indicates a potential of 1.2 mln ounces of gold, and by the middle of 1987 it expects to establish proven ore reserves containing at least 500,000 ounces of gold. It said mining could start in 1988, subject to a satisfactory prefeasibility study. The company said completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals. City Resources is controlled by City Resources Ltd of Australia. Reuter 
CITY RESOURCES TO SELL GOLD PROPERTY STAKE

City Resources Ltd said it has agreed in principle to sell a 50 pct interest in a group of mineral properties in the southwest Pacific to a buyer it did not name for 30 mln Canadian dlrs. The company said a preliminary estimate of the geological resources of one of the properties to a depth of 200 meters indicates a potential of 1.2 mln ounces of gold, and by the middle of 1987 it expects to establish proven ore reserves containing at least 500,000 ounces of gold. Mining could start in 1988, subject to a satisfactory feasibility study. The company said completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals. City Resources is controlled by City Resources Ltd of Australia. Reuter 
CSR SELLING DELHI TO EXXON UNIT, DROPS DELHI FLOAT

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> and Exxon Corp <XON> unit <Esso Exploration and Production Australia Inc> said CSR has agreed to sell its <Delhi Australia Fund> (DAF) to Esso for 985 mln Australian dlrs. The sale is effective from tomorrow, they said in a joint statement. The previously announced float of part of its Delhi interest will not now proceed, CSR said in the statement. Delhi Australia Fund owns <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd>, which holds an average of 25 pct in the Santos Ltd <STOS.S>-led Cooper and Eromanga Basin gas and liquids projects. In addition to the purchase price, CSR will share equally in any returns due to increases in crude oil and condensate prices over certain levels for liquids produced from Delhi's interests in the next two years, the statement said. "The Esso proposal to purchase all the Delhi interest will be more beneficial to our shareholders than proceeding with the float," CSR chief executive Bryan Kelman said in the statement. Kelman said the sale of Delhi would enable CSR to focus efforts on expanding business areas such as sugar and building materials in which CSR has had long and successful management experience and strong market leadership. With the sale, CSR will be able to expand those businesses more aggressively and earlier, he said. As reported separately, soon after announcing the Delhi sale CSR launched a takeover bid for the 68.26 pct of <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd> that it does not already hold, valuing its entire issued capital at 219.6 mln dlrs. After Bass Strait, the onshore Cooper and Eromanga Basin is Australia's largest oil and gas producing area with current gross oil production of 45,000 barrels per day (BDP), gas liquids output of 30,000 BPD and gas sales of 480 mln cubic feet a day, the CSR-Esso statement said. The purchase gives Esso, a 50/50 partner with The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S> in the Bass Strait, its first onshore production in Australia, they said. Esso's chairman Stuart McGill said he hoped Esso can assist in maintaining the high rate of oil and gas discoveries in the Cooper-Eromanga area. "These discoveries will help Australia's self-sufficiency in oil reserves thereby offsetting in part the decline in Bass Strait production now under way," McGill said. In a separately released letter to CSR shareholders, Kelman said CSR was within days of completing plans for the float of CSR Petroleum when it received an offer from Esso. He said CSR is convinced the sale was the correct decision in view of the risks associated with the oil business. The price-sharing arrangement provides for CSR to share equally with Esso in higher returns if oil prices average more than 20 U.S. Dlrs a barrel in the next two years, he said. Kelman said a revaluation of CSR's investment in Delhi to net realisable value as of today, CSR's annual balance-date, will result in an extraordinary loss of 97 mln dlrs. However, revaluations and profits on sales of other assets will significantly reduce this loss, he said. He also said that CSR is sufficiently encouraged by future prospects and the opportunity to reposition the group in core businesses to foreshadow an increase in final dividend payable in July to 10 cents from nine to make an annual 19 cents against 18 in 1985/86. REUTER 
ANALYSTS APPLAUD CSR'S BOLD MOVE TO SELL DELHI

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> has made a bold move in selling its oil and gas interests for almost a billion dlrs and ploughing 150 mln into its traditional sugar business, share analysts said. "It sounds like a good deal," Stuart McKibbin of <A.C. Goode and Co> told Reuters. CSR said it had dropped plans to float its oil and gas interests held in the <Delhi Australia Fund> and would instead sell it to Exxon Corp <XON> unit <Esso Exploration and Production Australia Inc> for 985 mln dlrs. In a twin announcement CSR, already Australia's largest sugar refiner, made a 2.20 dlr a share bid for the 70 pct it does not already hold in <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd>. "This will be a big shock to the market, which was under the impression that CSR was well down the road to floating Delhi," McKibbin said. A float of part of Delhi would have raised between 200 and 300 mln dlrs, but in opting to sell outright, CSR had given itself the cash to practically eliminate its debt and embark on an ambitious expansion programme in its best-performing divisions of sugar and building products, analysts said. CSR not only gets the 985 mln dlrs but also has the right to share equally with Esso any higher returns resulting from an oil price over 20 U.S. Dlrs a barrel in the next two years. Delhi is one of Australia's largest onshore oil producers yielding about six mln barrels a year from the Cooper Basin. Analysts said the deal could net CSR as much as three mln dlrs for every dollar rise in the oil price above 20 dlrs. Neale Goldston-Morris of Sydney broker <Bain and Co Ltd> said the move out of Delhi and investment in the sugar industry was a sensible one but added that it represented the loss of Australian-owned assets to a foreign company. "The farm they bought back a few years ago is being sold back to the Americans," Goldston-Morris said. The Pioneer Sugar investment would make CSR by far the largest player in Australia's 850 mln dlr a year sugar industry and would give it access to some of the best sugar properties and mills in the country, analysts said. They said Pioneer Sugar was expected to recommend acceptance of the bid through which CSR would benefit from the bottom out of a cyclical downturn in sugar prices. Sugar prices are forecast to rise to 340 dlrs a tonne next season from an estimated 270 dlrs this year, they said. Selling Delhi meant CSR has finally quit a damaging investment, made in 1981, which has dragged down the company's overall performance, analysts said. CSR last year wrote off more than 550 mln dlrs in losses on what had been a 591 mln U.S. Dlr investment financed entirely from U.S. Dollar debt, they said. "It was a bad investment for them. They financed it entirely with debt, the currency collapsed on them and then the oil price collapsed on them," Owen Evans of Sydney broker <Meares and Philips Ltd> said. Esso not only picked up Delhi's oil and gas output but also gained as much as 300 mln dlrs in transferable tax losses accumulated in exploration allowances and other concessions. Analysts said Esso also gained its first real onshore stake in Australia in its first major diversification from the 50/50 Bass Strait partnership with The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd <BRKN.S>. "Esso has been very keen to diversify from the Gippsland Basin. They haven't found too much oil in Bass Strait lately and Esso needed a large pool of ongoing production," Goldston-Morris said. REUTER 
CSR SELLING DELHI TO EXXON UNIT, DROPS DELHI FLOAT

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> and Exxon Corp <XON> unit <Esso Exploration and Production Australia Inc> said CSR has agreed to sell its <Delhi Australia Fund> (DAF) to Esso for 985 mln Australian dlrs. The sale is effective from tomorrow, they said in a joint statement. The previously announced float of part of its Delhi interest will not now proceed, CSR said in the statement. Delhi Australia Fund owns <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd>, which holds an average of 25 pct in the Santos Ltd <STOS.S>-led Cooper and Eromanga Basin gas and liquids projects. In addition to the purchase price, CSR will share equally in any returns due to increases in crude oil and condensate prices over certain levels for liquids produced from Delhi's interests in the next two years, the statement said. "The Esso proposal to purchase all the Delhi interest will be more beneficial to our shareholders than proceeding with the float," CSR chief executive Bryan Kelman said in the statement. Kelman said the sale of Delhi would enable CSR to focus efforts on expanding business areas such as sugar and building materials in which CSR has had long and successful management experience and strong market leadership. With the sale, CSR will be able to expand those businesses more aggressively and earlier, he said. As reported separately, soon after announcing the Delhi sale CSR launched a takeover bid for the 68.26 pct of <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd> that it does not already hold, valuing its entire issued capital at 219.6 mln dlrs. Reuter 
CSR BIDS 2.20 DLRS A SHARE FOR PIONEER SUGAR MILLS

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> said it will offer 2.20 dlrs cash each for the shares it does not already hold in <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd>. CSR already holds 31.74 pct of Pioneer's 99.80 mln issued shares, it said in a statement. The offer price values the entire Pioneer Sugar share capital at 219.6 mln dlrs and compares with today's closing market level of 1.85 dlrs a share. CSR said it will announce further details of the offer soon, including an alternative offer of CSR shares for Pioneer Sugar stock. It said the offer is generous since it will give Pioneer Sugar shareholders a price equivalent to 29 times Pioneer's net earnings last financial year and a premium of 22 pct over yesterday's market price which CSR said it believed already contained an element of takeover speculation. It also gives a premium of 91 pct over Pioneer's last reported net tangible assets per share, CSR said. CSR said the generous offer price reflects the cost savings which will flow from integrated management of CSR's and Pioneer's raw sugar mills and building materials businesses. These economies can only be achieved through CSR control and management of Pioneer Sugar, it added. The takeover announcement came soon after CSR's earlier reported statement that it will sell its <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd> unit to an Exxon Corp <XON> unit for 985 mln dlrs and not proceed with the previously announced float of part of Delhi. REUTER 
FLETCHER CHALLENGE DISAPPOINTED AT NZ FOREST MOVES

<Fletcher Challenge Ltd> (FCL) Managing Director Hugh Fletcher said he was disappointed that <Rada Corp Ltd> had decided to sell its shares in <N.Z. Forest Products Ltd> (NZFP) to Australia's <Amcor Ltd>. He said in a statement that FCL had made an offer for the 24 pct of NZFP held by Rada. He said the FCL offer was better than Amcor's because it would have been made to all NZFP shareholders, but he gave no further details. Amcor and NZFP said earlier today they were merging their pulp and paper interests in a joint partnership and were increasing their existing cross-shareholdings. The plan involves NZFP increasing its current holding in Amcor to about 20 pct from four pct. Amcor will acquire Rada's NZFP stake to add to its existing 11 pct and will seek statutory approval to increase its holding to 50 pct. Rada bought its stake for 505.5 mln dlrs from <Wattie Industries Ltd> last year, but it has not disclosed the price to be paid by Amcor. FCL originally launched a takeover bid for NZFP late last year with a scrip and/or cash offer at 3.90 dlrs a share, valuing the company at 1.3 billion dlrs. NZFP shares ended at 3.88 dlrs today. REUTER 
CHINA'S CITIC BUYS H.K. HOTEL FROM CHEUNG KONG

The Peking-owned China International Trust and Investment Corp (Citic) bought the unfinished City Garden Hotel in Hong Kong from a subsidiary of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd <CKGH.HKG> for 235 mln H.K. Dlrs, Cheung Kong director Albert Chow said. Cheung Kong's subsidiary <International City Holdings Ltd> will complete work on the hotel by the end of 1988, when it will be handed over to Citic. The deal does not include the decoration or fitting out of the interior of the hotel. The 600-room hotel stands on a 26,700 sq ft site on the eastern side of Hong Kong island. REUTER 
FRENCH CGE UNIT TAKES 34 PCT STAKE IN ESCA CORP

State-owned <Cie Generale d'Electricite>'s electrical contracting unit <CGEE ALSTHOM> has taken a 34 stake in the U.S. Computer firm <ESCA Corp>, CGEE ALSTHOM chairman Philippe Boisseau told a press conference. According to an agreement in principle between the two companies CGEE ALSTHOM could take a majority stake in the future but no time-scale has been set, he added. ESCA, which had a turnover of 13.6 mln dlrs in 1986 and is expected to see this rise to 20 mln this year, is one of the leading U.S. Suppliers of electric despatching and telecontrol systems. REUTER 
FERRUZZI MAY FLOAT UP TO 49 PCT OF PARIS UNIT

<Gruppo Ferruzzi> is studying a project which could result in a public share offer of up to 49 pct of its French unit <European Sugar (France)> and could raise around 400 mln dlrs, Ferruzzi chairman Raul Gardini said. Gardini told Reuters the operation under consideration was aimed at "international markets" and that the figure of 400 mln dlrs given in some press reports "was probably about right." European Sugar, wholly-owned by Ferruzzi unit Eridania Zuccherifici Nazionali SpA <ERDI.M>, is expected to absorb the European corn wet milling business of CPC International Inc <CPC.N> which Ferruzzi recently agreed to buy. Ferruzzi announced last week it had agreed in principle to buy the CPC operation for 630 mln dlrs. A Ferruzzi spokesman later confirmed that the group was studying the transfer of the CPC business to European Sugar along with a possible share offering in the Paris unit, but gave no details. The flotation plan has been interpreted by financial analysts as a means of helping finance the acquisition of the CPC business. In London yesterday, chairman of Belgian starch producer <Amylum NV> Pierre Callebaut told Reuters that since Ferruzzi was "apparently still organising finance," his company might still succeed with its rival bid for the CPC business. Gardini, commenting on Callebaut's remarks, said the 630 mln dlrs agreed for the CPC acquisition would be paid "at the date foreseen in the preliminary contract." Gardini could not reveal the date in question nor give any indication of the likely timing of an offering of shares in European Sugar, but it was announced last week that Ferruzzi's purchase of the CPC business was expected to be completed by September 30. Callebaut said yesterday that Amylum was surprised and disappointed that its 675 mln dlr bid cash offer for CPC's European business was apparently rejected in favour of Ferruzzi's lower bid. Gardini, commenting on Callebaut's remarks, said "Amylum should know that one succeeds in a bid by making the right offer at the right moment - exactly as Ferruzzi did in the case of the acquisition of CPC's European business." Gardini said it was not Callebaut's business to concern himself with the European Sugar capital raising operation under study, he added. Asked about press reports that Ferruzzi might follow up the European Sugar flotation with the sale of 49 pct of the CPC business, Gardini said: "We do not exclude having minority partners in the CPC business." He declined to elaborate. REUTER 
FERRUZZI MAY FLOAT UP TO 49 PCT OF PARIS UNIT

Gruppo Ferruzzi is studying a project which could result in a public share offer of up to 49 pct of its French unit European Sugar (France) and could raise around 400 mln dlrs, Ferruzzi chairman Raul Gardini said. Gardini told Reuters the operation under consideration was aimed at "international markets" and that the figure of 400 mln dlrs given in some press reports "was probably about right." European Sugar, wholly-owned by Ferruzzi unit Eridania Zuccherifici Nazionali SpA, is expected to absorb the European corn wet milling business of CPC International Inc which Ferruzzi recently agreed to buy. Ferruzzi announced last week it had agreed in principle to buy the CPC operation for 630 mln dlrs. A Ferruzzi spokesman later confirmed that the group was studying the transfer of the CPC business to European Sugar along with a possible share offering in the Paris unit, but gave no details. The flotation plan has been interpreted by financial analysts as a means of helping finance the acquisition of the CPC business. Reuter 
GANDALF <GANDF> ACQUIRES STAKE IN DATA/VOICE

Gandalf Technologies Inc said it acquired a significant minority equity interest in privately held Data/Voice Solutions Corp, of Newport Beach, Calif., for undisclosed terms. Gandalf did not specify the size of the interest. Data/Voice is a three-year-old designer and manufacturer of a multiprocessor, multiuser MS-DOS computing system that Gandalf plans to integrate with its private automatic computer exchange information system, Gandalf said. Reuter 
INVERNESS BUYS ASSETS FROM PARENT SILVERTON

<Inverness Petroleum Ltd> said it acquired the oil and gas assets of its controlling shareholder <Silverton Resources Ltd> for 26.4 mln dlrs, effective March 3, 1987. Inverness said it issued 2,640,000 class A convertible retractable redeemable preferred shares in exchange for the assets, which include all Silverton's oil and gas properties, undeveloped acreage and its shares of Australian subsidiary S.R.L. Exploration Pty Ltd. The preferred shares were immediately retracted for cash, the company said. The transaction resulted in a discharge of Silverton's bank debt of 21.0 mln dlrs and a three mln dlr loan to Inverness from Silverton, Inverness said. As a result of the acquisition, Inverness has bank debt of 18.0 mln dlrs, it said. Reuter 
ROYEX MAKES BID FOR INTERNATIONAL CORONA

<Royex Gold Mining Corp> said it is making an offer for <International Corona Resources Ltd> of 50 dlrs per share and 40 dlrs per warrant. The offer covers four mln Corona common shares and all outstanding 9.50 dlr Corona share purchase warrants expiring August 31, 1987, Royex said. Royex said that if it gains four mln Corona common shares, its interest in Corona will increase to 50 pct from 38 pct. It also said that if more than four mln shares are tendered, it will pay for them on a pro rata basis. Royex said the purchase price for each Corona share consists of one Royex convertible retractable zero coupon Series B first preference share at 20 dlrs nominal value, one Royex convertible 6-1/2 pct Series C first preference share at 20 dlrs nominal value, one five-year 7.50 dlr Royex share purchase warrant and four dlrs in cash. The price for each Corona warrant consists of 1.75 convertible retractable zero coupon Series B first preference share at 35 dlrs nominal value and one five-year 7.50 Royex share purchase warrant. Royex said both series of preference shares will be convertible into Royex common shares, initially on a basis of 3.33 common shares for each preference share converted. Reuter 
COMINCO <CLT> SELLS STAKE IN CANADA METAL

Cominco Ltd said it sold its 50 pct stake in Canada Metal Co Ltd to Canada Metal senior management for an undisclosed sum. Cominco said the sale was part of its previously announced policy of divesting non-core businesses. Canada Metal is a Toronto-based producer of lead alloys and engineered lead products. Canada Metal production figures were not immediately available. Reuter 
SWEDEN'S BOLIDEN TO ANNOUNCE MAJOR CORPORATE TAKEOVER
TODAY - OFFICIAL.



BOLIDEN TO ANNOUNCE MAJOR CORPORATE TAKEOVER - OFFICIAL

Boliden AB <BLDS ST> mining and metals group said it will announce a major foreign corporate takeover today involving a company with an annual turnover of two billion crowns. A Boliden spokesman told Reuters details of the announcement would be given at a news conference by chairman Rune Andersson at 1030 gmt today. He said the company involved employed 4,000 people, but declined to name the takeover price or say what field the firm operated in. Share analysts said they expected Boliden to announce it will be taking over the U.S. Allis-Chalmers Corp <AH.O> but company officials refused to confirm the reports ahead of the news conference. REUTER 
SINGAPORE'S UIC TO BUY INTO TECK HOCK COFFEE FIRM

Singapore's United Industrial Corp Ltd (UIC) has agreed in principle to inject 16 mln dlrs in convertible loan stock into <Teck Hock and Co (Pte) Ltd>, a creditor bank official said. UIC is likely to take a controlling stake in the troubled international coffee trading firm, but plans are not finalised and negotiations will continue for another two weeks, he said. Teck Hock's nine creditor banks have agreed to extend the company's loan repayment period for 10 years although a percentage of the new capital injection will be used to pay off part of the debt. Teck Hock owes more than 100 mln Singapore dlrs and since last December the banks have been allowing the company to postpone loan repayments while they try to find an investor. The nine banks are Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd, United Overseas Bank Ltd, Banque Paribas, Bangkok Bank Ltd, Citibank N.A., Standard Chartered Bank Ltd, Algemene Bank Nederland NV, Banque Nationale de Paris and Chase Manhattan Bank NA. REUTER 
INTERNATIO-MUELLER ACQUIRES CANADIAN COMPANY

Internatio-Mueller NV <INTN.AS> said it will acquire <Promac Controls Inc> of Canada but declined to comment on the amount of the payment, which will be in cash. Promac, which produces measurement and regulating equipment, has a work force of 50 and had 1986 turnover of five mln guilders, an Internatio spokesman said. He said the takeover fits into the company's drive for expansion in the U.S and Canada and further acquisitions are possible. Promac Controls will be part of Internatio's electrotechnical sector. REUTER 
HOOGOVENS CONCLUDES TAKEOVER OF PHILIPS CIREX UNIT

Dutch steel concern <Hoogovens Groep BV> said it had reached agreement with NV Philips Gloeielampenfabrieken <PGLO.AS> on its takeover of Cirex, a specialised Philips precision wax moulding unit. Neither party would reveal financial details of the deal, initially announced in October. Hoogovens said Cirex turnover had grown in recent years to 30 mln guilders in 1986 and it expected further expansion. The unit delivers mainly to the car industry. Hoogovens said the acquisition would strengthen its position as a supplier to industry of high-value metal products. REUTER 
BOND CORP COMPLETES CONSOLIDATED PRESS PURCHASE

Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S> said it has completed the 1.05 billion dlr purchase of the electronic media interests of unlisted <Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd>. The new company <Bond Media Ltd> now holds the television, broadcasting and associated businesses previously held by Kerry Packer's Consolidated, Bond Corp said in a statement. Packer, who made the sale in January, will be a director of Bond Media. As previously reported, Bond Media will be publicly floated with a rights issue to Bond Corp shareholders. Bond Media will be 50 pct owned by Bond Corp and is expected to be listed by the end of May, it said. REUTER 
SWEDISH MATCH SELLS PORTUGUESE UNIT

Swedish Match AB <SMBS.ST> said it was selling one of its Portuguese subsidiaries, <Sociedade de Iniciativa e Aproveitamentos Florestais Sarl> (SIAF), to the Porto-based <Sonae Group> for an undisclosed price. SIAF, a subsidiary of Swedish Match since 1946, had a turnover last year of 62 mln crowns, the Swedish group said in a statement. REUTER 
UNICORP VOTING STAKE HIKED IN UNION ENTERPRISES

<Union Enterprises Ltd> said holders of 7.2 mln or 80 pct of its class A series one preferred shares requested to retract their shares under terms of the issue, thus raising <Unicorp Canada Corp>'s voting stake in Union to 58 pct from 50. Union said it paid about 90 mln dlrs on April 1 for the retraction, using existing credit lines. Reuter 
CANADIAN TIRE MAJOR HOLDERS NOT EXTENDING PACT

CTC Dealer Holdings Ltd said <Canadian Tire Corp Ltd> controlling shareholders Alfred, David and Martha Billes did not extend an agreement expiring yesterday to tender their shares only to CTC's previously reported offer for 49 pct of Canadian Tire common shares. CTC, which already holds 17.4 pct of Canadian Tire common, said it would therefore not take up any shares tendered under its offer unless they totaled at least 1.1 mln or another 32.7 pct of Canadian Tire common. The Billes control 60 pct of Canadian Tire common. It added that it extended its offer to May 11 at a fixed price of 165.36 dlrs a share. CTC, a group of Canadian Tire dealers, said it expected to know by May 11 if it would obtain approval to appeal a previously reported Ontario court ruling upholding a regulatory decision to block CTC's offer. The dealers' bid was previously blocked by the Ontario Securities Commission because the offer excluded holders of Canadian Tire class A non-voting shares, which make up about 96 pct of company equity. Reuter 
NOVAMIN BOARD TO RECOMMEND BREAKWATER <BWRLF> BID

<Novamin Inc> said its board will recommend to shareholders the takeover offer made by Breakwater Resources Ltd. Breakwater is offering to exchange one Breakwater share for each two shares of Novamin, the company said. Breakwater will issue about 3.7 mln shares for all Novamin shares presently issued and outstanding. Additional shraes of Breakwater will be issued if warrants and options of Novamin are exercised. Reuter 
GALVESTON TO AQUIRE MINE PROPERTY INTERESTS

<Galveston Resources Ltd> said it agreed in principle for an option to earn up to a 50 pct interest from <Hemlo Gold Mines Inc> in certain mining properties known as the Interlake Property, subject to regulatory approvals. Galveston said it will earn up to a 50 pct interest by spending a minimum of one mln dlrs in exploration and development work by December 31, 1989. It expects work will commence shortly and continue during the 1987 exploration season. Galveston also said it granted Hemlo Gold options to acquire up to two mln Galveston shares. It said the options can be exercised at 10 dlrs a share up to December 31, 1987, then at 12.50 dlrs a share until December 31, 1988, and then at 15 dlrs a share until December 31, 1989. Separately, Galveston said it agreed in principle with <Noranda Inc> unit Noranda Explorations Ltd for an option to earn up to a 50 pct interest in a major mineral property located at the Baie Verte Peninsula, Newfoundland. Galveston can earn a 50 pct interest by spending six mln dlrs in exploration and development work on the property by December 31, 1989. The company also said it granted Noranda an option to purchase two mln Galveston shares. The options can be exercised at 10 dlrs a share until December 31, 1987, then at 12.50 dlrs a share until December 31, 1988, and then at 15 dlrs a share until December 31, 1989. Reuter 
DEUTSCHE AGREES FULL TAKEOVER OF FORMER EURASBANK

Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> has agreed to take over the outstanding 25 pct in <Deutsche Bank (Asia) AG>, the former <European Asian Bank AG>, from Creditanstalt-Bankverein <CABV.VI>, Deutsche management board joint spokesman Alfred Herrhausen told a news conference. Euras broke even in 1986 and required no funding from Deutsche, he said. He gave no details of the deal with Creditanstalt. Press reports that Deutsche was planning a takeover of Lloyds Bank plc <LLOY.L> were without foundation, he said. Herrhausen said Deutsche had taken part in the recent capital increase of <Morgan Grenfell Group plc>, but had no plans to raise its 4.4 pct share in Morgan Grenfell. <Banca d'America e d'Italia SpA>, in which 98.3 pct was acquired from Bankamerica Corp <BAC.N> late last year, would be consolidated this year, and contribute to further expansion of Deutsche's business, management board joint spokesman F. Wilhelm Christians said. Following a ruling earlier this year from the Federal High Court, Deutsche had included its non-bank holdings in the balance sheet section "participations," Christians said. But Christians said the bank still regarded shares in these non-bank companies as an investment rather than an active participation. Parent bank total participations rose to 6.45 billion marks in 1986 from a comparable 4.57 billion in 1985 including a rise to 3.79 billion from 2.34 billion in bank participations. Herrhausen said the grouping of holdings in the balance sheet in this was was not a first step to floating them off in a separate holding company. Reuter 
COMPROMISE CITED ON SAN MIGUEL SHARES

<San Miguel Corp>, SMC, and <United Coconut Planters Bank>, UCPB, have reached a compromise on a disputed block of 38.1 mln shares of SMC, the head of a government panel that controls the sequestered shares said. Ramon Diaz, Chairman of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG) told Reuters SMC had offered a price of 126 pesos per share for the block, held in trust by the UCPB. "It looks good," Diaz said. But he added several issues, including the identity of the ultimate buyers of the shares, had to be resolved before the PCGG gave its approval to the sale. The PCGG's sequestration last year of 33 mln shares aborted SMC's bid to buy them back from 14 trading companies in the UCPB group. The commission said it suspected the shares were actually controlled by Eduardo Cojuangco, an associate of former President Ferdinand Marcos. Cojuango, who headed the boards of both SMC and UCPB when he fled last year after Marcos was toppled, personally owned 24 mln shares in SMC. His holdings are also under sequestration. "The shares that SMC now proposes to buy from the UCPB are owned by 1.4 mln coconut farmers," Diaz said. "Naturally we do not want them to go back into the hands of Marcos cronies." PCGG sources said a compromise would end a row over a down payment of 500 mln pesos made by SMC's Hong Kong subsidiary Neptunia Corp Ltd in a bid to buy back the shares last year. The UCPB had said the 500 mln peso payment would be forfeited because SMC Chairman Andres Soriano III had failed to fulfil his commitment to buy back the shares at an originally negotiated price of 3.3 billion pesos. PCGG sources said SMC, the Philippines' largest food and beverage manufacturer, has agreed to sell 14 mln "B" class shares from the 38.1 mln shares to Australian brewer Alan Bond at a price of 150 pesos per share. The PCGG sources said of the proposed 4.79 billion peso transaction, 1.6 billion pesos would be offset against the 500 mln peso down payment, the 500 mln pesos worth of preferred shares in UCPB held by SMC, 210 mln pesos in uncollected dividends on the UCPB shares and 400 mln pesos advanced to UCPB-controlled trading companies. The UCPB rejected an original offer of 100 pesos per share made by SMC for 33 mln shares, which grew to 38 mln after a 15 pct stock dividend declared in June last year. A spokesman for SMC said the company's 15-member board met today to discuss the proposed compromise. The spokesman declined comment on the outcome of the board meeting, saying the dispute was under arbitration. President Corazon Aquino last month asked SMC and UCPB to set up a three-man arbitration panel to resolve the ownership issue. The panel is due to submit its report by April 15. Eduardo de Los Angeles, a government nominee in the SMC board, filed a formal complaint before the Securities and Exchange Commission last week, accusing Soriano and eight other directors of violating "fiduciary duty." De Los Angeles was said to have opposed a decision by SMC's board last December to assume the 500 mln peso Neptunia loan. REUTER 
ZIMBABWE GOVERNMENT BUYS INTO ASTRA

The Zimbabwe government has bought 85 pct of the equity in <Astra Corporation> for 25.5 mln dlrs from Netherlands-based <Bommenede Houdstermaatschappij (Nederland BV)>, Astra announced. Astra owns five companies with interests in engineering, paint manufacture and the distribution of farm machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and earthmoving equipment. The company is now locally controlled with 80 pct of its equity owned by the government, 14 pct by the Dutch firm. A six pct stake was donated to the Astra Corporation Workers' Trust by the government and the Dutch company. Reuter 
JACOBS TAKES MAJORITY STAKE IN COTE D'OR

Jacobs Suchard AG said it acquired a "comfortable majority" interest in its takeover bid for Cote d'Or SA, Belgium's leading producer of chocolate. In a statement, Jacobs said it had acquired all the shares tendered by the time its offer expired on March 30. The offer, for 100 pct of Cote d'Or at 8,050 Belgian francs per ordinary share, was agreed with the Belgian firm's board. A Jacobs spokesman declined to specify the size of the majority stake and said Jacobs had not decided what it would do about acquiring the outstanding shares. Reuter 
POLYSAR, ALBERTA COMPLETES PURCHASE

Polysar Ltd said Alberta Natural Gas Co Ltd completed its purchase of Canstates Energy's shares held by Rankin Holdings Ltd for undisclosed terms. Polysar said its previous partnerships with Rankin in Canstates Energy, a natural gas liquid company, will continue with Alberta. Polysar, an international petrochemical company, said the new partnership will be beneficial to putting together a natural gas liquid system to serve the petrochemical feedstock requirements of its business. Reuter 
UNION CARBIDE FRENCH UNIT IN TAKEOVER BID

Union Carbide France, a unit of Union Carbide Corp <UK>, has launched a bid to buy shares of French chemical group <Duffour et Igon> at 2,100 francs a share until May 4, the stockbrokers' association CSAC said in a statement. Duffour et Igon has capital of 13.3 mln francs, divided into 133,100 shares with a nominal value of 100 francs. They were last traded on January 9 at 856 francs. <Rothschild et Associes Banque> is acting for Union Carbide. Reuter 
MIM COMPLETES PART OF NORDDEUTSCHE AFFINERIE BUY

MIM Holdings Ltd <MIMA.S> said it has issued 23.33 mln shares to Preussag AG <PRSG.F> to complete the previously announced purchase of 20 pct of <Norddeutsche Affinerie AG> from Preussag. Terms of the acquisition of 10 pct of Norddeutsche Affinerie from Degussa AG <DGSG.F> are currently being resolved, MIM said in a statement. Norddeutsche Affinerie will then be owned 40 pct by Metallgesellschaft AG <METG.F> and 30 pct each by MIM and Degussa, but MIM said it and Metallgesellschaft are proposing a further arrangement to give them 35 pct each. REUTER 
SKANDIA INTERNATIONAL BUYS STAKE IN NEVI BALTIC

<Skandia International Holding AB>, the overseas offshoot of Swedish insurance group Forsakrings AB Skandia <SKDS.ST> said it was buying a 29.9 pct share in the London-quoted property and financial services company <Nevi Baltic Plc>. No financial details were given. Nevi Baltic, with a 1986 turnover of 20 mln stg and total assets of 70 mln stg, is controlled by Norwegian finance company <Nevi AS> which will retain a 30.1 pct stake in the British unit, Skandia said in a statement. The deal is subject to formal approval from the Swedish central bank, the statement added. REUTER 
PIONEER SUGAR SAYS CSR TAKEOVER OFFER TOO LOW

<Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd> said it considered the proposed 2.20 dlrs a share cash takeover offer announced by CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> on March 31 to be too low in view of the group*hK!UiIe and prospects. CSR's bid for the 68.26 pct of Pioneer's 99.80 mln issued shares it does not already hold values the entire grop_j9culd make an alternative share offer but has not yet announced terms. Pioneer recommended in a statement that shareholders retain their stock, pending the board's response once it receives full details of the CSR offer. REUTER 
PIONEER SUGAR SAYS CSR TAKEOVER OFFER TOO LOW

<Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd> said it considered the proposed 2.20 dlrs a share cash takeover offer announced by CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> on March 31 to be too low in view of the group*hK!UiIe and prospects. Pioneer recommended in a statement that shareholders retain their stock, pending the board's response once it receives full details of the CSR offer. REUTER 
MEMOTEC DATA COMPLETES TELEGLOBE ACQUISITION

<Memotec Data Inc> said it completed the previously announced 488.3 mln dlr acquisition of Teleglobe Canada from the federal government. Memotec Data said Teleglobe, which has provided Canada's overseas telecommunications services since 1950, now becomes Teleglobe Canada Inc, a unit of Memotec. Teleglobe president and chief executive Jean-Claude Delorme will continue in the same post, the company said. In addition to the sale price, the government will receive Teleglobe's accumulated cash of 102 mln dlrs and a special 18 mln dlr dividend, making total proceeds 608.3 mln dlrs. Reuter 
RVIAL TO UNION CARBIDE EMERGES IN FRENCH BID

<Carburos Metalicos> of Spain has bid 2,205 francs a share for French chemicals group <Duffour et Igon>, rivalling the 2,100 franc bid announced yesterday by Union Carbide France, the French subsidiary of the U.S. Chemical giant Union Carbide Corp <UK.N>, the stockbrokers' assocation (CSAC) said here. Duffour et Igon's capital is comprised of 133,100 shares with a nominal value of 100 francs each. Shares were last quoted at 856 francs on January 9. Banque Paribas will act for Carburos Metalicos, while Union Carbide France's bid is being led by Rothschild et Associes Banque. Duffour et Igon shares will be suspended on April 6 and 7 and will resume trading on April 8. Reuter 
S. KOREA ORDERS MERGERS OF TROUBLED COMPANIES

South Korea ordered the takeover of six financially troubled overseas construction firms and two shipping companies under the government's industrial realignment programme, Finance Ministry officials said. They said the Industrial Policy Deliberation Committee decided to allow concessionary loans to three firms taking over the eight. The companies involved would be exempted from corporate tax and property transfer and registration taxes. Under the programme, five subsidaries of <Chung Woo Development Co Ltd> will be taken over by <Byuck San Corp>, <Korea Develpoment Corp> by <Daelim Industrial Co Ltd>, and two subsidaries of <Korea Shipping Corp> by the <Hanjin Group>. Another five construction companies were ordered to improve their financial status by reorganising their subsidiaries or selling off unproductive real estate holdings to help repay bank loans, the officials said. These are <Pacific Construction Co Ltd>, <Life Construction Co Ltd>, <Chin Heung International Co Ltd>, <Samick Co Ltd> and <Hanshin Construction Co Ltd>. A further five shipping companies -- <Hanjin Container Line Ltd>, <Choyang Shipping Co Ltd>, <Hyundai Merchant Marine Co Ltd>, <Pan Ocean Shipping Co> and <Dooyang Line Co Ltd> -- will be allowed to defer the repayment of bank loans and interest, but details have yet to be finalised, the officials said. They said the government would take similar measures for more companies in August in line with the continuing realignment policy, which had already affected 56 firms last year. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT CO COUNTER-BIDS FOR TMOC

<The Australian Gas Light Co> (AGL) said it will offer one share plus one dlr cash for every two shares in oil and gas producer <TMOC Resources Ltd> in a counter-bid to the previously reported takeover offer by Santos Ltd <STOS.S>. The offer values TMOC shares at 4.75 dlrs each, based on AGL's closing price of 8.50 dlrs on Friday. TMOC shares jumped to 4.60 dlrs on the announcement from its Friday closing price of 4.15. The AGL offer, the third to be made for TMOC this year, compares with the Santos cash offer of 4.00 dlrs a share. Based on TMOC's issued capital of 62.08 mln shares, the AGL offer values the entire company at 249.9 mln shares. AGL said in a statement that it already holds 10.5 pct of TMOC's issued capital. This compares with the Santos stake of 3.1 pct when it announced its bid in March 23. <Elders Resources Ltd> began the auction for TMOC about three months ago with an unsuccessful 2.55 dlrs a share on-market offer that has since lapsed. AGL said its offer is above the upper end of the range of values placed on TMOC by its advisers in the company's response urging rejection of the Elders Resources bid. AGL said it will make the same offer for TMOC's convertible notes. Accepting share and note holders will participate in AGL's planned one-for-one bonus issue. It said TMOC is already a partner with AGL in the Alice Springs to Darwin gas pipeline and has a number of businesses complementary with those of AGL. AGL is the New South Wales natural gas utility while TMOC has extensive onshore holdings, mainly in Queensland where it owns the Moonie oil field and in the Northern Territory where it operates and holds 43.75 of the Mereenie oil-gas field. It also has interests in a number of gas or oil pipelines. REUTER 
WORMALD TO ACQUIRE STAKE IN HOLMES PROTECTION

Fire protection and security group Wormald International Ltd <WOIA.S> said British-listed <Holmes Protection Group Inc> has agreed to issue it with 6.15 mln common shares of one U.S. Cent par-value at 1.72 stg each. The two groups have also begun exploratory talks on a possible merger of the Holmes business with the compatible businesses of Wormald, comprising some or all of its fire protection and security businesses in the Americas and Europe, Wormald said in a statement. The issue of shares in the New York-based Holmes is conditional upon shareholder approval at a general meeting. Wormald said its stake will represent 9.99 pct of Holmes' existing issued shares and 9.09 pct of the enlarged capital. The issue will raise 10.6 mln stg which will be used for further development of the Holmes business. Wormald said the businesses of the two groups are largely complementary in terms of both geographical spread and the nature of their activities, with Holmes concentrating on burglar alarms and Wormald on fire systems. Holmes's operations are concentrated in and around New York amd Miami. It earned 11 mln U.S. Dlrs pre-tax in its last reported full year, 1985, and 6.0 mln in first half 1986. REUTER 
BOW VALLEY <BVI> TO SELL NORWEGIAN SUBSIDIARY

Bow Valley Industries Ltd said it agreed to sell its wholly owned Norwegian subsidiary to Elf Aquitaine Norge A/S of Stavanger, Norway for 13 mln Canadian dlrs. The principal asset of the subsidiary, Bow Valley Exploration Norge A/S, is an eight pct interest in the Heimdal gas and condensate field offshore Norway. The sale is expected to conclude by the middle of April, Bow Valley said. Reuter 
NORANDA BUYS SHARES OF SANIVAN GROUP

<Noranda Inc> said it agreed to buy an initial 1,000,501 treasury shares of <Sanivan Group Inc> at 5.25 dlrs per share. Noranda also has an option until June 30, 1988, to acquire an additional 1,000,501 Sanivan treasury shares at 5.75 dlrs per share. Sanivan is the largest hazardous waste management company in Canada. Reuter 
GOLDSIL AND GOLDEN RULE AGREE TO MERGE

<Golden Rule Resources Ltd> and Goldsil Resources Ltd said they had agreed to merge. The merged company will issue to each Golden Rule shareholder 1-1/2 shares and one warrant. The warrant will be for a term of two years. Payment of 3.10 dlrs and delivery of two warrants will entitle the shareholder to one additional share of the merged company, the companies said. Each Goldsil shareholder will receive one share and one-half warrant. The warrant will be for a term of two years. Payment of 3.10 dlrs and delivery of two warrants will entitle the shareholder to one additional share of the merged company. Reuter 
SPORTSCENE ACQUIRES CHRISTOPHE VAN HOUTTE CHAIN

(Sportscene Restaurants Inc) said it acquired (Cafe Christophe Van Houtte Inc), a cafe chain with ten franchises and one corporate restaurant, for an unspecified amount of cash and Sportscene shares. Reuter 
BOND CORP STILL CONSIDERING ATLAS MINING BAIL-OUT

Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S> and Atlas Consolidated Mining and Development Corp <ATLC.MN> are still holding talks on a bail-out package for the troubled mining firm, an Atlas statement said. Atlas, the Philippines' biggest copper producer, said it had been hit by depressed world copper prices. It reported a net loss of 976.38 mln pesos in the year ending December 1986, compared with a net loss of 1.53 billion in 1985. The company said it had been able to cut its losses because its scaled-down copper operations in the central island of Cebu started in the second half of 1986. Atlas said negotiations were continuing on the acquisition by Bond of the company's existing bank loans and their restructuring into a gold loan. A memorandum of understanding signed by the two sides in October last year said Bond would acquire Atlas' total loans of 275 mln dlrs, to be repaid by the mining company in gold. Atlas said the two sides were also discussing equity infusion into Atlas and the creation of a development fund for further exploration and development of the company's gold properties in the central province of Masbate. Wilson Banks, general manager of <Bond Corp International Ltd> in Hong Kong, told Reuters the Atlas statement on the negotiations was "reasonably accurate." Banks said Bond Corp was seriously considering several investments in the Philippines but did not give details. In its statement, Atlas said development of the pre-World War Two underground mines in Masbate had been accelerated and the ore tonnage had increased, extending the operation's life at least until 1993. REUTER 
CRA SOLD FORREST GOLD FOR 76 MLN DLRS - WHIM CREEK

<Whim Creek Consolidated NL> said the consortium it is leading will pay 76.55 mln dlrs for the acquisition of CRA Ltd's <CRAA.S> <Forrest Gold Pty Ltd> unit, reported yesterday. CRA and Whim Creek did not disclose the price yesterday. Whim Creek will hold 44 pct of the consortium, while <Austwhim Resources NL> will hold 27 pct and <Croesus Mining NL> 29 pct, it said in a statement. As reported, Forrest Gold owns two mines in Western Australia producing a combined 37,000 ounces of gold a year. It also owns an undeveloped gold project. REUTER 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH JOINS BID FOR SAN MIGUEL

Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc <BUD.N> has joined several other foreign bidders for sequestered shares of the Philippines' largest food and beverage maker San Miguel Corp <SANM.MN>, the head of a government panel which controls the shares told Reuters. Ramon Diaz, Secretary of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG), said Anheuser-Busch had told the government it was interested in buying 14 mln "B" shares of San Miguel. He did not disclose the offered price. Diaz said Australian brewer Alan Bond's Bond Corp Holdings Ltd had offered 150 pesos per share for the "B" shares. Diaz said New York investment bank Allen and Co Inc had earlier said it was interested in buying all 38.1 mln sequestered shares. He told Reuters last month Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S>, the Melbourne-based brewing company, had also bid for the "B" shares. The Hong Kong Economic Journal last month quoted a spokesman of Australian stock broker Jacksons Ltd as saying that <Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, an Australian firm owned 30 pct by <Ariadne Australia Ltd>, was planning a Filipino branch in order to buy the entire block of 38.1 mln shares. Anheuser-Busch last year made a 150 mln dlr bid to buy <San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a Hong Kong listed company which is 69.65 pct owned by <Neptunia Corp Ltd>, a San Miguel Corp subsidiary. The talks broke down last June after the two sides said they could not agree on the terms of the sale. REUTER 
BELL GROUP CONFIRMS STANDARD CHARTERED STAKE

The Bell Group Ltd <BLLA.S> said it now holds 14.9 pct of the issued capital of Standard Chartered Plc <STCH.L> after acquiring further shares. The one-sentence statement from Bell's headquarters confirmed what its brokers Warburg Securities told Reuters in London yesterday. Bell previously held 10 pct of Standard. Bell chairman Robert Holmes a Court, who is also a director of Standard, was not available for comment on his company's intentions in boosting its holding and other company officials contacted here by Reuters declined to comment. REUTER 
SAN MIGUEL DEAL HIT BY MORE LAWSUITS

A bid by San Miguel Corp (SMC) <SANM.MN> to buy back 38.1 mln sequestered shares from United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) has been hit by two new lawsuits, sources in the Philippine food and brewery company said. A Manila court yesterday issued an injunction barring UCPB from selling the shares, which represent 31 pct of SMC's outstanding capital stock of 121 mln shares, until hearings on April 21 on a petition filed by Eduardo Cojuangco, a former chairman of both SMC and UCPB. Cojuangco said the Coconut Industry Investment Fund (CIIF) and 1.4 mln farmers were the rightful owners of the shares. Cojuangco said the shares were held in trust by UCPB and represented a blue chip investment. His petition said UCPB's plans to sell the shares to SMC were "a serious breach of fiduciary duties." The SMC sources said the proposed share sale could also be held up by a second derivative suit filed before the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Eduardo de los Angeles, a government nominee on the company's board. De los Angeles, who represents SMC's minority stockholders, asked the SEC to block the transaction, approved last week by the company's board. On April 2 the board sanctioned the repurchase of the sequestered shares for 4.79 billion pesos at 126 pesos per share. De los Angeles told the SEC the company's retained earnings of 1.33 billion pesos would be wiped out by the purchase of the shares and would prevent the declaration of dividends. De los Angeles said the share purchase would also violate an SMC agreement with its creditors to maintain a 2.2-to-1 debt to equity ratio. He quoted SMC's chief financial director Ramon del Rosario as telling the board that the transaction would boost the ratio to 2.5-to-1. In petitioning the SEC, de los Angeles amended an earlier suit two weeks ago in which he charged SMC Chairman Andres Soriano III and nine other directors of violating their duties. De los Angeles' earlier complaint related to SMC assuming last December a 26.5 mln dlr loan contracted by SMC's Hong Kong subsidiary <Neptunia Corp> for a down payment on the shares. The loan assumption was again ratified by last week's board meeting. An arbitration panel set up by President Corazon Aquino to resolve the ownership issue is expected to submit its report by April 15. "The amended suit filed by Eduardo de los Angeles is part of a continuing attempt by certain elements, in complete disregard of the facts and with questionable motives, to delay an early disposition of the sequestered shares," San Miguel Corp said in a statement. "Coming as it does, when San Miguel Corp and UCPB have reached agreement on the price of the shares and the method of payment, this suit is in direct contravention of the government's expressed desire to reach an amicable settlement of the controversy by April 15," the statement added. A San Miguel spokesman said he had no comment on Cojuangco's court petition, adding: "Any statement coming from us might be interpreted as adversarial." Meanwhile, Ramon Diaz, the head of a government panel which sequestered the shares last year, said Soriano was not eligible to buy the major portion of the shares because he was a United States citizen. The sequestered shares are split into 24 mln "A" shares, which can only be owned by Filipinos, and 14 mln "B" shares which are available to foreign buyers. SMC sources said Soriano personally was not among prospective buyers. They said the shares would be purchased by the <A.Soriano> group of companies, SMC, Neptunia and unnamed institutional investors. Soriano was named as one of the buyers in a bid in March 1986 for 33 mln shares controlled by UCPB. The sale was aborted when Diaz's Presidential Commission on Good Government sequestered the shares on suspicion they were owned by Cojuangco, a close associate of former President Ferdinand Marcos. Cojuangco lives in self-imposed exile in the U.S.. The shares grew to 38.1 mln after a 15 pct stock dividend announced last June. "We have no objection to Soriano buying the "B" shares," Diaz told Reuters. "But everything is on hold now." The SMC spokesman said he did not know if the controversy would be resolved before the company's annual stockholders' meeting, scheduled for May 14. San Miguel Corp reported sales revenue of 12.2 billion pesos in 1986, 11 pct above its 10.9 billion peso sales in 1985. It said unaudited net profit was in the neighbourhood of 700 mln pesos, an increase of about 50 pct over 1985. REUTER 
CANADIAN BASHAW, ERSKINE RESOURCES TO MERGE

Canadian Bashaw Leduc Oil and Gas Ltd said it agreed to merge with Erskine Resources Ltd. Terms were not disclosed. Ownership of the combined company with 18.8 pct for the current shareholders of Canadian Bashaw and 81.2 pct to the current shareholders of Erskine, the companies said. Reuter 
DOMINION CALLS BURLINGTON <BUR> REPORT RUMOR

<Dominion Textile Inc> considers a published report that it has bought a stake in Burlington Industries Inc and is considering making a joint bid for the company to be a rumor, a company spokesman said. "As far as I am concerned and the company is concerned, they are rumors and we're not commenting on rumors," spokesman Michel Dufour told Reuters in response to a query. "All the information that has been given out publicly is that, yes, Dominion Textile is interested in making an acquisition that big...probably based on that people are starting all sorts of rumors," he said. Dufour said yes when asked whether the report was only a rumor, but said the company was not prepared to comment further. Dominion Textile president and chairman Thomas Bell was out of town and unavailable for comment. Dominion Textile last year made an unsuccesful 104-mln- U.S.-dlr bid for Avondale Mills and has maintained a 120-mln- U.S.-dlr line of credit to be used for an American acquisition. Dufour said the company has been negotiating with "many" U.S. textile companies but would not say whether Burlington Industries was one of them. Burlington's stock rose sharply this morning on the report, which said Dominion Textile had joined with U.S. investor Asher Edelman to buy a stake in the company and to consider making a takeover offer. Dominion Textile, which reported operating profit of 11.1 mln Canadian dlrs last year on sales of 926.5 mln dlrs, has repeatedly said it will concentrate on expanding into the U.S. The company has said it plans to diversify into new product and market areas in addition to expanding its textile operations. Reuter 
CANADA ALLOWS PUBLISHING TAKEOVER BY HARCOURT

Investment Canada said it has allowed the indirect takeover of Holt, Rinehart and Winston Canada Ltd., W.B. Saunders Co of Canada Ltd and Les Editions HRW Ltd by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Canada Inc. The government agency said, however, Harcourt Canada has agreed to sell control of the firms to Canadian interests within two years. Harcourt Canada's U.S. parent, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc <HBJ>, indirectly acquired the Canadian book publishing companies when it purchased Holt Rinehart and Winston from CBS Inc <CBS> last October. Reuter 
UAP MAKES ACQUISITIONS

<UAP Inc> said it has acquired Slater Auto Electric Ltd, with two Ontario stores, and United Diesel Engine Parts Ltd, of Dartmouth, Nova Scotia, for undisclosed terms. It said the transactions, together with acquisitions earlier this year, will increase its annual sales by about 4.5 mln dlrs. Reuter 
DOME <DMP> PLAN MAY FORCE SALE OF ENCOR STAKE

Dome Petroleum Ltd's proposal to restructure debt of more than 6.10 billion Canadian dlrs includes provisions that may force the company to sell its 42 pct stake in <Encor Energy Corp Inc>, Dome said in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Dome said in the filing that its debt plan proposes making payments under a five year income debenture to the lender whose debt is secured by Dome's Encor shares. After the five years are up, "under certain circumstances the shares of Encor may be required to be disposed," the company said. Dome has pledged its 42.5 mln Encor shares as security for part of its debt to <Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce>, estimated last year at 947 mln dlrs. Analysts have said Commerce Bank was pressing Dome to sell the stock to pay down its debt. Dome's Encor shares had a market value of 313 mln dlrs on March 17, 1987, the company's filing said. As previously reported, Dome is seeking approval in principle for the debt restructuring plan. Dome said in the filing it proposed lenders sign a letter of understanding in early April, with implementation to be effective July 1, 1987. Dome Petroleum reiterated in the SEC filing that its existence as a going concern is dependent on continuing the interim debt plan, due to expire on June 30, and winning agreement for its proposed restructuring plan. "The company believes that the negotiation and implementation of the proposed debt restructuring plan is realistic and achievable," Dome said. "However, the final outcome of the negotiations cannot be predicted at this time," it said. Reuter 
CSR SAYS IT IS RETAINING NON-DELHI GAS-OIL STAKES

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> said its sale of <Delhi Petroleum Pty Ltd> will not affect the other oil and gas interests it manages or operates. CSR sold Delhi, which holds an average 25 pct in the Santos Ltd <STOS.S>-led Cooper-Eromanga Basin onshore gas and liquids joint ventures, to an Exxon Corp <XON> unit for 985 mln dlrs on April 1. In a statement to clarify the position, CSR said it will retain its Roma Gas unit, the associated Roma-Brisbane gas pipeline and the Bula oilfield on Seram, Indonesia, plus exploration interests in Queensland and Hainan Island, China. REUTER 
GEMINA HAS NO COMMENT ON AMBROSIANO REPORT

Holding company <Gemina Spa> said it had no comment on an Italian press report today that it has acquired a 12 pct stake in <Nuovo Banco Ambrosiano Spa>. Italian daily La Repubblica said that Gemina paid 205 billion lire for the shareholding from several Italian banks. A Gemina spokeswoman told Reuters, "We have nothing to say about the report." A spokeswoman for Milan-based Ambrosiano said, "We have no information at this time." In February, Ambrosiano chairman Giovanni Bazoli said foreign and domestic firms have expressed interest in buying stakes in the bank. REUTER 
EXXON <XON> SOUTH AFRICAN UNIT ACQUIRED BY ZENEX

<Zenex Oil Pty Ltd> said it acquired the interests of Esso South Africa, the local subsidiary of Exxon Corp <XON), and will use up to 20 mln rand in profits to finance educational and social programs. The profit scheme will begin after Zenex has paid Exxon an undisclosed purchase price for Esso, Zenex chairman John Truscott said in a statement. The acquisition follows the Exxon withdrawal from South Africa announced last December. Reuter 
CADILLAC FAIRVIEW SAYS IT RECEIVED TAKEOVER BIDS

<Cadillac Fairview Corp Ltd> said it received proposals to acquire the company, following its announcement last August that it had retained investment dealers to solicit offers for all outstanding common shares. Cadillac Fairview said the offers are subject to clarification and negotiation and offered no further details. Reuter 
KUWAIT INCREASES STAKE IN SIME DARBY

The Kuwait Investment Office (KIO) has increased its stake in <Sime Darby Bhd> to 63.72 mln shares, representing 6.88 pct of Sime Darby's paid-up capital, from 60.7 mln shares, Malayan Banking Bhd <MBKM.SI> said. Since last November, KIO has been aggressively in the open market buying shares in Sime Darby, a major corporation with interests in insurance, property development, plantations and manufacturing. The shares will be registered in the name of Malayan Banking subsidiary Mayban (Nominees) Sdn Bhd, with KIO as the beneficial owner. REUTER 
WESTERN MINING SELLS ACM STAKE

Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd <WMNG.S> (WMC) said it sold its entire holding of 22.13 mln shares in the gold mining company <Australian Consolidated Minerals Ltd> (ACM). WMC gave no details, but stockbrokers said the sale was made at eight dlrs a share on Friday to a number of U.S., European and Australian investors through WMC's usual brokers. The company purchased the 19.9 pct parcel in early March from Amax Inc <AMX.N> at 6.32 dlrs a share ahead of a one-for-three bonus issue when Amax sold its entire 47 pct stake in ACM to a number of local companies. REUTER 
BOND CORP TO ACQUIRE 80 PCT OF MERLIN PETE

Bond Corp Holdings Ltd <BONA.S> said it has agreed to acquire an 80 pct stake in <Merlin International Petroleum Corp> from <Crowley Maritime Corp> for 90.8 mln U.S. Dlrs. Of this total, 7.8 mln dlrs is due on exchange of contracts on April 30 and 69 mln on July 7, subject to any regulatory approvals being obtained, Bond said in a statement. The balance of 14 mln dlrs will be paid as required by Merlin for its exploration and production commitments, it said. Bond said Merlin has a 6.25 pct working interest plus a 2.5 pct reversionary interest in the Papua New Guinea permit, PPL-17, the site of the Iagifu oil discovery. Merlin also has a 12.5 pct stake in the adjacent Papuan Basin permit, PPL-18, which contains the Juha gas and condensate discovery. In addition to Papua New Guinea, Merlin has petroleum exploration and production interests in the U.S., Bond added. REUTER 
TAKEOVER BATTLE FOR DOME PETROLEUM BEGINS

A takeover battle began today for debt-burdened Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP.MO> as TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP.TO> announced a 4.3 billion dlr offer and Dome said it is continuing talks with other possible buyers. Companies mentioned in market speculation as potential buyers for Dome include Imperial Oil Ltd <IMO.A> which is 70 pct owned by Exxon Corp <XON.N>, <PanCanadian Petroleum Ltd> which is 87 pct owned by the conglomerate Canadian Pacific Ltd <CP.N> and British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L>. Along with the TransCanada offer, Dome has had another proposal from "a substantial company" and discussions with a third company which could lead to an offer, Dome said in a statement. The statement confirmed Dome received TransCanada's bid, but did not identify the companies involved in talks. TransCanada, Canada's largest natural gas pipeline operator, said it is offering Dome a package of cash, common and preferred shares, and shares in a new subsidiary which would own and operate Dome's assets. TransCanada said the offer is to Dome management, not to shareholders. Dome has massive oil and gas landholdings in Canada, totalling 36.1 mln acres of which 7.4 mln have been developed. It also has tax credits worth about 2.5 billion dlrs. Dome's statement said the TransCanada announcement "violated the terms and spirit of a confidentiality agreement entered into with prospective purchasers" and was apparently timed to prevent Dome from considering other proposals. It said the TransCanada bid "seems to require favourable and substantial taxation concessions from the federal and provincial governments." But Dome added that its management and financial advisers will evaluate all proposals. TransCanada chief financial officer H. Neil Nichols said he was surprised at the vehemence of Dome's statement and denied that TransCanada was trying to usurp other bids. "I find (Dome's statement) very bothersome. Once the board made the decision to authorise the proposal, it had a legal obligation to announce it," he said. Nichols said he did not know the identity of the other bidders, or the terms of other offers. Dome common shares closed at 1.13 dlrs on Friday on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The preferred class A stock closed at 5.00 dlrs. Common stock traded as high as 25.00 dlrs in 1981. REUTER 
CORONA <ICR.TO> FAVORS ROYEX <RGM.TO> OFFER

International Corona Resources Ltd said its board of directors believes that terms of Royex Gold Mining Corp's previously announced offer are fair and reasonable, but it decided it will make no recommendation on the offer to its shareholders. Royex on March 31 offered to buy four mln Corona shares. For each Corona share it offered four dlrs cash, one series B share of Royex, one series C share of Royex and one share purchase warrant. It also bid for all Corona warrants expiring Aug 31, 1987. Reuter 
JANNOCK <JN.TO> ACQUIRES HALF-STAKE IN PRINTER

Jannock Ltd said its Jannock Imaging Co Ltd unit acquired a 50 pct stake in Arthurs-Jones Lithographing Ltd, of Toronto, for undisclosed terms. It said the acquisition would lift Jannock Imaging revenues to 50 mln dlrs this year. It did not specify Arthurs-Jones' 1986 revenues. Reuter 
ELECTROHOME <EL.X.TO> TO SELL UNIT

Electrohome Ltd said it agreed to sell certain assets of the computer service sector of its AABEX service division to Canadian General Electric Co Ltd <CGE.TO>. Terms were not disclosed. The closing date is expected to be May 1, 1987. Reuter 
CANADA STOCKS/DOME PETROLEUM LTD <DMP>

Dome Petroleum Ltd shares moved higher in the U.S. and Canada after TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP> made a 4.3 billion Canadian dlr bid for Dome and Dome said it is in talks with two other unidentified companies. Market speculation is that the other two potential bidders are not Canadian companies and DuPont's <DD> Conoco and Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC> are mentioned as possibilities, Wilf Gobert of Peters and Co Ltd said. Dome rose 1/4 to 1-1/8 on the American Stock Exchange. TransCanada PipeLines was down 1/4 at 15-3/4 on the New York Stock Exchange. Dome was the most active stock on the Toronto exchange at 1.50 dlrs per share, up 37 cts. Gobert characterized the market action in Dome as "awfully optimistic" but said investors are hoping for a competing offer to the shareholders. TransCanada PipeLines' offer is to Dome management, not to shareholders. However, it proposes issuing new equity in a subsidiary that would operate Dome assets. Current Dome shareholders would own 20 pct of the new subsidiary. Reuter 
NOR-QUEST <NQRLF> MAKES BID FOR NORTHAIR <NRM.TO>

Nor-Quest Resources Inc said it will make a takeover offer to acquire all shares of Northair Mines Ltd on the basis of one Nor-Quest share plus one dlr for two shares of Northair. Nor-Quest said it plans to bring Northair's Willa Mine in the Nelson area of British Columbia into production using Nor-Quest's recently acquired 1200-ton per day mill located in the area. Reuter 
NOVA <NVA.A.TO> NOT PLANNING DOME <DMP> BID

Nova, an Alberta Corp, chief executive Robert Blair expressed hope that Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP> remains under Canadian ownership, but added that his company plans no bid of its own for debt-troubled Dome. "We've no plan to bid," Blair told reporters after a speech to a business group, although he stressed that Nova and 57 pct-owned Husky Oil Ltd <HYO> were interested in Dome's extensive Western Canadian energy holdings. "But being interested can sometimes be different from making a bid," Blair said. TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP> yesterday bid 4.30 billion dlrs for Dome, but Dome said it was discontinuing talks with TransCanada and was considering a proposal from another company and was also talking with another possible buyer, both rumored to be offshore. Asked by reporters if Dome should remain in Canadian hands, Blair replied, "Yes. I think that we still need to be building as much Canadian position in this industry as we can and I think it would be best if Dome ends up in the hands of Canadian management." He said he did not know who other possible bidders were. Blair said that any move to put Dome's financial house in order "will remove one of the general problems of attitude that have hung over Western Canadian industry." He added, however, that the energy industry still faced "a couple of tough, tough additional years." Asked about Nova's 1987 prospects, Blair predicted that Nova's net profit would rise this year to more than 150 mln dlrs from last year's net profit of 100.2 mln dlrs due to improved product prices and continued cost-cutting. Reuter 
EMPIRE <EMPA.TO> TO BUY SOBEYS <SYSA.TO> STOCK

Empire Co Ltd said it will acquire all shares of Sobeys Stores Ltd it does not already own under an arrangement approved by directors of both companies. Holders of Sobeys class A non-voting shares and class B common shares may elect to receive either 1.6 non-voting class A Empire shares or one non-voting class A Empire share and one-half of an eight pct redeemable retractable preferred share. The preferred share has a par value of 25 dlrs and is retractable at the holder's option on May 1, 1994. Reuter 
CANADA'S WILSON HAS NO COMMENT ON DOME (DMP)

Finance Minister Michael Wilson said it was too early to comment on the tax implications of TransCanada PipeLines Ltd's 4.3 billion dlr offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd. "The specific offer by TransCanada is just in the course of being made and we don't have the details of all the elements of the proposal," Wilson told the House of Commons daily question period. Opposition parties were questioning Wilson about a possible loss of tax revenue if the takeover was completed because of the large tax credits held by Dome. Reuter 
NORTHAIR <NRM.TO> OPPOSING NORQUEST <NQRLF> BID

Northair Mines Ltd said it would oppose Nor-Quest Resources Inc's earlier reported proposed takeover bid "with every means at its disposal," saying "this attempt at a property grab is an insult to the intelligence of our shareholders." It said Nor-Quest's offer to swap one Nor-Quest share plus one dlr for two Northair shares would seriously dilute Northair's equity in its Willa mine in British Columbia. "Our company is in sound financial position and production financing can be readily arranged when required. We're not looking for a partner and if we were, it certainly wouldn't be these guys," Northair said. Reuter 
BANK OF CHINA BUYS SHARE IN LUXEMBOURG COMPANY

State-owned Bank of China has bought a three to five pct share of BAII Holding SA, a financial institution registered in Luxembourg, the China Daily Business Weekly said. It said the institution is 50 pct owned by Arab interests and has set up a wholly owned commercial banking branch in Hong Kong but gave no more details. REUTER 
AMOCO <AN> MAY BUY DOME <DMP>, REPORT SAYS

Amoco Corp is apparently the successful bidder for debt-laden Dome Petroleum Ltd, according to a published report. The Toronto Globe and Mail, quoting sources close to the negotiations, today said Dome broke off talks last night with TransCanada PipeLines Ltd, which last week announced a 4.3 billion Canadian dlr offer for all of Dome's assets. No financial details about the Amoco offer were available and a Dome spokesman would neither confirm nor deny that Amoco had emerged the winner, the newspaper said. However, the Dome spokesman indicated that the sale of Dome could be finalized and announced this weekend, the Globe and Mail said. Representatives of Amoco were not immediately available for comment. Last Sunday, when TransCanada announced its offer, Dome said it was also in talks with two other companies, but refused to identify them. Since then, market speculation has centered on Amoco and Exxon Corp's <XON> 70 pct-owned Imperial Oil Ltd subsidiary in Canada. British Petroleum PLC <BP> and Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> have also been mentioned as possible suitors for Dome. In the past two days, Dome management has been pressured by the federal government to select the offer from TransCanada, the only Canadian company in the bidding. Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's government appears to want to avoid a Dome sale to a foreign company since the government gave Dome hundreds of millions of dollars in tax breaks to encourage oil and gas exploration in the Arctic, analysts and officials have said. A purchase by TransCanada would be least likely to run afoul of Canadian antitrust laws, however, TransCanada is asking for tax concessions from a federal government that is trying to hold its deficit below 30 billion Canadian dlrs, analysts have said. A takeover by Amoco or Imperial would also give a foreign oil company a dominant position in Canada's oil industry. Imperial Oil is already Canada's largest energy company, with 1986 revenues of 7.1 billion Canadian dlrs. Chicago-based Amoco had 1986 revenues of 20.23 billion U.S. dlrs. Its Amoco Canada Petroleum subsidiary is 100 pct owned by Amoco Corp. Reuter 
FRENCH GOVERNMENT SETS TERMS OF BIMP SALE

The French Finance ministry said today a public flotation offer opening this coming Tuesday for 39 pct of the capital of <Banque Industrielle et Mobiliere Privee> (BIMP) has been set at 140 francs per share. The offer closes next Friday. The ministry said in a statement 51 pct of the bank's capital had been sold to a solid core of large investors, including insurance companies and Michelin subsidiary SPIKA, for 145 pct of the public offer price. Ten pct of the shares have been reserved for employees, who get a five pct discount increased to 20 pct if they keep the shares for two years. Employees also get one free share for each one bought, if the shares are held for at least one year. Small investors would receive one free share for every 10 bought, with an upper limit of five free shares per investor, and on condition the shares are held for at least 18 months. The state-owned capital of BIMP comprises 2.51 mln shares. The bank is being sold to the public as part of a sweeping programme to privatise 65 state-owned groups over five years. In a separate statement, the ministry said last week's privatisation offer of 1.07 mln shares in <Banque du Batiment et des Travaux Publics> (BTP) was 65 times oversubscribed. REUTER 
CITY RESOURCES UNIT ACQUIRES PHILIPPINE MINE OPTION

<City Resources (Asia) Ltd>, a locally listed unit of Australian based <City Resources Ltd>, said it acquired an 80-day option to buy exploration, development and operating rights for mining property on the island of Luzon in the Philippines. It said in a statement that average assay results of random samples of the Brescia ore bearing body on the 459-hectare site showed 2.4 grammes of gold, 64 grammes of silver and 1.9 grammes of copper per tonne. It said it will exercise the option if tests confirm the site's potential. Further details were not available. REUTER 
TRANSCANADA <TRP> UPS DOME <DMP> BID - REPORT

TransCanada PipeLines Ltd has raised its takeover offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd to 5.5 billion Canadian dlrs from 4.3 billion, according to a report on the Canadian Broadcasting Corp (CBC). However, a spokesman for Dome said the company is not interested, since it has already agreed to be acquired by Amoco Corp <AN> for 5.1 billion dlrs, the CBC said. Spokesmen at Dome and TransCanada could not immediately be reached for comment. Although Dome has said it is only interested in the Amoco offer, a spokesman for TransCanada was quoted as saying that the ultimate decision rests with Dome shareholders. "I don't know what (Dome chairman J. Howard Madconald) is going to say if a letter lands on his desk and he's got an offer there equal or better for the shareholders than the one he has on his desk at this time," TransCanada chief financial officer Neil Nichols was quoted as saying. Reuter 
FALCONBRIDGE <FALCF.O> SEES IMPROVED RESULTS

Falconbridge Ltd said it expected results for the rest of 1987 to improve from the earlier reported first quarter operating loss of 15.4 mln dlrs. Chief executive William James told reporters after the annual meeting that "I would hope that the loss for the year certainly wouldn't be a high as the loss for the first quarter. In other words we are going to make money from here on in." Falconbridge last year made a first quarter operating loss of 17.1 mln dlrs and a full-year operating loss of 15.5 mln dlrs. James said currency losses tied to the stronger Canadian dollar resulted for about eight mln dlrs of the first quarter operating loss. Falconbridge records its cash and accounts receivable in U.S. dollars, with the Canadian dollar equivalent decreasing as the U.S. dollar falls. He said the first quarter loss also stemmed from weaker nickel and ferronickel prices and lower production at the company's Sudbury, Ontario nickel operations and at some Kidd Creek operations. Falconbridge anticipates higher production through the rest of the year and higher average prices this year for precious metals, James added, without elaborating. Falconbridge has no immediate plans for further divestments, James said in reply to reporters' inquiries. The company sold several mining subsidiaries last year to help pay down debt from its January, 1986 acquisition of Kidd Creek Mines Ltd from Canada Development Corp <CDC.TO>. He said Falconbridge's debt now totaled about one billion dlrs, down from 1.37 billion dlrs at the time of the Kidd Creek buy. James said he could not assess the impact of Amoco Corp <AN>'s proposed acquisition of Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP>. Dome's 23 pct-owned Dome Mines Ltd <DM> owns 21 pct of Falconbridge. Asked by reporters if Falconbridge preferred competing Dome bidder, Calgary, Alberta-based TransCanada PipeLines Ltd to Chicago-based Amoco, James replied, "It makes no difference to me...whoever takes it over is fine by us." He told shareholders that Falconbridges' planned capital expenditures this year would decline to 134 mln dlrs from 160 mln dlrs last year. Reuter 
TRANSCANADA <TRP> DENIES REPORTS OF NEW BID

TransCanada PipeLines Ltd denied reports that it raised its offer for Dome Petroleum Ltd <DMP> to 5.5 billion Canadian dlrs from 4.3 billion. A report on the Canadian Broadcasting Corp (CBC) late last night said TransCanada's new bid was rejected by Dome, which has accepted a 5.1 billion dlr bid from Amoco Corp <AN>. "We still want to acquire Dome's assets and are prepared to negotiate. However, we have not presented a new proposal to the company since April 16 and Dome has refused to negotiate with TransCanada since that date," said TransCanada president Gerald Maier. TransCanada said its proposal consists of two parts -- 4.5 billion dlrs in cash and securities and one billion dlrs of payments to creditors based on future profits. Last week, TransCanada valued the first part of its offer at 4.3 billion dlrs, but a spokesman today said the company increased the estimated value of that part to 4.5 billion dlrs after the recent gain in Dome's stock. Dome was halted today on the Toronto Stock Exchange pending clarification of TransCanada's offer. It last traded at 1.70 dlrs per share. Two weeks ago, before TransCanada's offer, Dome traded at about 1.10 dlrs per share. Reuter 
TURNER TO MEET WITH DOME <DMP> EXECUTIVES

Liberal Party leader John Turner said he will meet with senior executives of Dome Petroleum Ltd in Calgary tomorrow to discuss the proposed sale of Dome. Turner's office said he will hold a news conference tomorrow at 1400 MDT (1600 EDT) in Calgary. Turner, who is opposition leader in Parliament, has criticized Dome's acceptance of a 5.1 billion dlr takeover bid from Amoco Corp <AN> as a sell-out of Canada's oil industry. Reuter 
ELDERS PURCHASE OF CANADIAN BREWER APPROVED

Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> said the Canadian government approved its bid for <Carling O'Keefe Ltd>. Elders earlier announced it was buying 10.9 mln shares, or 50.1 pct of Carling, from the Canadian subsidiary of Rothmans International Plc <ROT.L> for 18 Canadian dlrs each. Elders chairman John Elliott said in a statement when the offer for the ordinary shares closed on April 23, that acceptances representing over 93 pct of outstanding shares had been received. <IXL Holdings> would proceed to acquire the rest compulsorily, he said. REUTER 
SHELL CANADA <SHC.TO> SEES BETTER YEAR

Shell Canada Ltd said performance in all business segments in the first quarter showed improvement over last year and it expects "significantly enhanced performance" in 1987. Shell Canada reported first quarter earnings of 103 mln dlrs, or 90 cts per share, up from 40 mln dlrs, or 32 cts per share. Oil products earnings were 38 mln dlrs, up 19 mln dlrs from last year, when margins were impaired by lower oil prices. Shell Canada said chemical earnings were 17 mln dlrs in the quarter, compared with a loss of five mln dlrs in 1986. The styrene business saw significant improvement, stemming from an increase in international demand. Resources earnings increased by six mln dlrs to 46 mln dlrs. Lower prices for all commodities were offset by the removal of the Petroleum and Gas Revenue Tax, the impact of lower royalty rates and higher volumes. Gross production of crude oil and natural gas liquids increased seven pct from the first quarter of last year to 11,200 cubic meters a day, Shell said. Shell Canada also said natural gas sales volumes of 19.6 mln cubic meters a day was up five pct from last year. Sulphur sales of 4,143 tonnes a day were up 70 pct. The company also recorded benefits of 10 mln dlrs from the acquisition of Shell Explorer Ltd. Interest expense for the quarter was lower than in the previous year, due to the early retirement of a 200 mln U.S. dlr debenture and the impact of a stronger Canadian dollar on U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Reuter 
HUDSON'S BAY <HBC.TO> SELLS ROXY <CNR.TO> STAKE

Hudson's Bay Co said it agreed to sell its entire 54.5 pct interest in Canadian Roxy Petroleum Ltd, a total of about 7.5 mln shares, to Westcoast Transmission Co Ltd <WTC> for 11 dlrs a share. Hudson's Bay said proceeds of about 82 mln dlrs will be used to reduce corporate debt. It said the sale was part of a program of concentrating on its core business of department stores and real estate. The sale is subject to regulatory approvals. Reuter 
ELDERS ACQUIRES 95 PCT OF CARLING <CKB>

<Elders IXL Ltd>, of Australia, said it acquired 20.8 mln or 95 pct of Carling O'Keefe Ltd common shares under its previously announced tender offer that expired yesterday. Investment Canada said earlier this week it approved Elders's takeover of Carling, Canada's third largest brewery. Reuter 
ROCKWELL SIGNS AGREEMENT ON VALEO SUBSIDIARY

Rockwell International Corp <ROK.N> has signed an agreement leading to the takeover of Valeo <VLOF.PA> subsidiary <SO.M.A. Europe Transmissions>, Valeo said in a statement. The company said Rockwell had agreed to handle Soma sales around the world and to help Valeo in restructuring its loss-making subsidiary. It also said Rockwell, an American high-technology engineering group with interests in aerospace and the car industry, would take control of Soma at the beginning of 1988 if it obtained approval from the French government. Soma, a fully owned subsidiary of Valeo, makes axles and gear boxes for heavy vehicles and machinery mostly used in the construction business. A Valeo spokesman said <S.E.S.M.>, a subsidiary of Soma specialized in equipment for military vehicles, had been excluded from the agreement with Rockwell. He said no details were available on the eventual amount Rockwell would pay for Soma. Vehicle components maker Valeo was the object of a takeover bid in 1986 by Italian group <Compagnie Industriali Riunite> (CIR), controlled by Olivetti chairman Carlo de Benedetti. The French government limited CIR's holding in Valeo to less than 30 pct in June 1986, after classifying Valeo as a defence contractor. Today CIR has effective control of Valeo through its French holding company <Compagnies Europeenes Reunies>, Cerus, which has a 18.24 pct stake in Valeo. Since CIR won control of the French group in June, Valeo has pursued a policy of concentrating its activities on the car industry. The company spokesman said Valeo had sold off all its construction interests in 1986 but declined to comment on the amount of the sales. The spokesman said figures were not available on Soma's losses in 1986 but said the company had registered a turnover of 546 mln francs. Valeo recorded a consolidated net loss of 388 mln francs in 1986 on a turnover of 12.1 billion francs. REUTER 
CSR PLANS TAKEOVER BID FOR MONIER

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> said it plans to offer 3.50 dlrs a share cum-bonus for all the issued capital of building products group Monier Ltd <MNRA.S>. The offer values Monier's current issued capital of 156.28 mln shares at 547 mln dlrs and compares with the latest share market price of 2.80 dlrs, equal to last Friday's close. Monier recently said it proposes to make a one-for-two bonus issue before June 30. CSR will shortly announce further details of the offer including a CSR share alternative, it said in a statement. CSR said it currently holds 323,000 Monier shares or only 0.21 pct of the company's issued capital. Redland Plc <RDLD.L>, the holder of 49.87 pct of Monier, has agreed with CSR that Redland will not accept the offer for its stake initially, CSR said. Instead, CSR has granted Redland two alternative options, the first giving Redland the right to accept the CSR offer at the same price within six months of the closing date of the bid, the company said. The second grants Redland the option to increase its Monier holding to 50.1 pct in the same period. The second option is exercisable by Redland at 3.50 dlrs a share, CSR said. Both option deals are subject to the approval of Monier shareholders except CSR and Redland. As previously reported, Redland and Monier had been discussing a possible Redland bid for Monier but the talks broke off two weeks ago. CSR said Redland supports the CSR offer as a means of establishing a fruitful joint venture in building materials in which they both have interests. At the end of the offer, they will discuss how these interests may be developed. Redland has indicated that it would be prepared to consider at a later stage an increase in CSR's Monier stake to enable it to become a CSR subsidiary, assuming Redland exercises the second option, CSR said. It said the offer is generous because it will give Monier shareholders a price equivalent to 16.8 times after-tax earnings in 1985/86 ended June 30, a 25 pct premium over Friday's market price and a 125 pct premium over last reported net tangible asset backing per share of 1.57 dlrs. The offer is beneficial for both CSR and Monier shareholders, CSR's chief executive officer Bryan Kelman said. "The acquisition will broaden CSR interests in building materials by the addition of complementary domestic and overseas businesses in concrete and clay tiles, metal roofing materials and concrete blocks and piping," Kelman said in the statement. "Importantly, the acquisition will provide CSR with new growth opportunities in building materials both in Australia and overseas," he added. Monier, which earned a net 32.49 mln dlrs in 1985/86, has operations in a number of countries, including the U.S., Japan, Britain and New Zealand, as well as Australia. REUTER 
BALLADUR DEFENDS CGCT DECISION ON ERICSSON

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the government awarded control of <Compagnie Generale de Constructions Telephonques> (CGCT) to a consortium headed by Sweden's AB LM Ericsson <ERIC.ST> last week because its proposal was "judged technically sound and valid." Balladur, responding to a question following a speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce, said the successful bid by Ericsson and French partners Matra <MATR.PA> and <Banque Indosuez> was "well organised and equipment will be readily available." He did not comment further. CGCT has 16 pct of France's telephone switching market. Reuter 
NATL BUSINESS <NBSIF> SUBSIDIARY IN BUYOUT

National Business Systems Inc said its Transact Data Services Inc subsidiary agreed to acquire Access ATM Network Inc <ATM.TO>'s 1.6 mln outstanding shares for 1.6 mln dlrs cash. The company said the deal was conditional on Access completing the previously announced sale of its automated teller machine assets to unidentified buyers and approval by Access shareholders. Closing is expected in May, it said. National Business said Transact Data planned to amalgamate Access's software and switching capability operations. Reuter 
PECHINEY TO SELL PART OF STAKE IN CANADA PLANT

French state-owned aluminium and special metals group Pechiney <PUKG.PA> is planning to sell 25 pct of a Canadian aluminium plant at Becancour to the U.S.'s Reynolds Metals Co <RLM.N> over the coming weeks, the company said. Pechiney currently holds a majority 50.1 pct stake in the plant. The company also said it planned an agreement soon with Italy's <La Metalli Industriale>, a 57 pct owned subsidiary of <Societa Metallurgica Italiana> related to cupreous products. No further details were available. REUTER 
MONSANTO TO BUY RHONE-POULENC POLYPHENYL BUSINESS

Monsanto Chemical Company, a unit of Monsanto Co <MTC.N>, is to acquire the polyphenyls business of Rhone-Poulenc Chimie, a unit of Rhone-Poulenc <RHON.PA>, Monsanto said in a statement issued from its European headquarters. The statement did not disclose financial details. Gustaaf Francx, general manager of Monsanto Chemical Co Europe-Africa, said the acquisition would help Monsanto to expand its customer base for polyphenyls, which are used as components for high temperature heat transfer fluids. Reuter 
PIOSEC <PIO.AL> ACQUIRES SEMICONDUCTOR STAKE

Piosec Technology Ltd said it exchanged 4.5 mln common shares for 21 pct of privately owned <Alliance Semiconductor Corp> of Santa Clara, Calif. Followin the acquisition, a Piosec spokesman said, the company has 6.5 mln shares outstanding. Reuter 
EQUITICORP TASMAN TO BID FOR MONIER LTD

<Equiticorp Tasman Ltd> (ETL) said it will offer 4.15 dlrs a share cash for all the issued capital of Monier Ltd <MNRA.S>, currently the subject of a 3.80 dlrs a share bid by CSR Ltd <CSRA.S>. Alternatively, ETL will offer three shares plus 82 cents cash for each Monier share, it said in a statement. As previously reported, ETL moved into the market for Monier shares last week, taking its stake to 13.7 pct by Friday. It now holds 14.99 pct, the maximum allowed without Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval. ETL is classified as foreign because of its New Zealand base. The ETL cash offer values Monier's issued capital of 156.28 mln shares at 649 mln dlrs, against 593 mln for the CSR bid. Based on the current price of ETL shares of 1.05 dlrs, the alternative is worth 3.97 dlrs per share, but ETL said the value placed on its shares for the offer aproximates to the diluted asset backing of ETL as at March 31. ETL said the offer will have no minimum acceptance conditions and will be subject to Australian foreign investment and U.S. Hart-Scott-Rodino anti-trust clearances. ETL chairman Allan Hawkins said in the statement that the shareholding in Monier was a long term investment. ETL and its <Feltex International Ltd> associate have targetted the building products sector as an area of expansion and Monier fits well with this aim, he added. Monier chairman Bill Locke said in a separate statement that the independent directors of Monier intend to recommend acceptance of the ETL bid in the absence of a higher bid. He also said Monier will not now proceed with the one-for-two bonus issue announced with its interim results on March 19 in view of the proposed takeover bids. As previously reported, the CSR offer involves a complex put and call option deal with Monier's major shareholder, Redland Plc <RDLD.L>, which gives Redland the choice of accepting the CSR offer for its 49.8 pct stake or moving to 50.1 pct within six months of the bid closing. CSR officials have made it clear that they see Redland taking the second option, resulting in the two companies running Monier as a joint venture. CSR officials have also said they had no intention of raising the company's bid for Monier after ETL's intervention became public last week. REUTER 
STAD ROTTERDAM TAKES STAKE IN SWISS-OWNED INSURER

Dutch insurer Stad Rotterdam Anno 1720 N.V. <ASRN.AS> said from July 1 it will own 20 pct of the shares of <Europeesche Verzekering Maatschappij N.V.>, a fully-owned unit of Swiss insurer <Union Rueckversicherungs-Gesellschaft>. Stad Rotterdam chairman Lucas van Leeuwen told Reuters it may raise its stake to a majority interest if the two companies are found to be sufficiently compatible. Van Leeuwen said that due partly to the fact Europeesche made losses in 1985 and 1986, the 20 pct stake was obtained at below the shares' intrinsic value. He gave no precise sum. The Europeesche, which specialises in travel and recreation insurance, had a premium income of 150 mln guilders in 1986. Stad Rotterdam's premium income in 1986 was 1.17 billion guilders, making it the fifth largest Dutch insurer. Europeesche made a loss of nine mln guilders in 1985, which narrowed to 4.5 mln guilders in 1986, van Leeuwen said. He said the company was on course for independent recovery and was expected to reduce its losses further in 1987. REUTER 
DUFFOUR IGON GIVES BACKING TO AGA TAKEOVER BID

French industrial gas group <Duffour et Igon> has decided to back the takeover bid by Swedish industrial gases group Aga AB <AGA.ST>, ending a lengthy battle between rival bidders from France, Spain and West Germany, Duffour et Igon Chairman Jean Igon said. The board agreed late last night to back the Aga bid and advise its shareholders to accept the Swedish group's latest offer of 4,410 francs per share, he told Reuters. The other main bidders were Union Carbide Corp's <UK.> French subsidiary <Union Carbide France> and West Germany's Linde AG <LING.F>. Aga topped rival bids for the gases distribution group in May by raising its offer to 4,410 francs from 4,000 francs. This was accepted by Spain's <Carburos Metalicos SA> which sold Aga six pct of Duffour et Igon's stock and the right of first refusal on the remaining nine pct of stock it holds. It also won over the French Midi-Pyrenees development authority which agreed to sell Aga its 20 pct stake in Duffour et Igon. Under Aga's offer, shareholders can either accept a cash bid or exchange one share in Duffour et Igon for one bond of a nominal value of 4,410 francs with a 10 pct coupon issue by Aga France SA. The bond issue is guaranteed by the parent Aga AB. The takeover battle for the Toulouse-based company, which controls eight pct of the French industrial gas distribution market, began on April 2 with an offer of 2,100 francs per share from Union Carbide France <UK>. Aga's offer, which puts a price of 587 mln francs on the company, closes on June 24 and the results will be announced on July 21. Duffour et Igon shares were quoted yesterday at 4,410 francs, with no buyers, after a series of suspensions during the takeover tussle. They traded at 856 francs on January 9 before the first suspension. REUTER 
SANTOS TO ACQUIRE TOTAL EXPLORATION AUSTRALIA

Santos Ltd <STOS.S> said it would buy <Total Exploration Australia Pty Ltd> from <Total Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Total-Cie Francaise des Petroles <TPN.PA>. Total Exploration had interests ranging from 18.75 to 25 pct in four blocks in permit ATP259P in south-west Queensland, Santos said in a statement. The Santos group stakes will rise to between 52.5 and 70 pct of the four ATP259P blocks as a result of the purchase. The price was not disclosed. Santos said a number of oil and gas fields have been discovered in the Total Exploration areas and that it regards them as having very good prospects for further discoveries. Total's reserves amount to 75 billion cubic feet of gas and 5.5 mln barrels of oil and condensate, it said. It said it will promote a vigorous exploration program in the areas for the rest of 1987 and in the future. The acquisition is the latest in a series by Santos as part of a program to expand from its origins in the South Australian Cooper Basin. REUTER 
DUMEZ HAS 478,125 UNITED WESTBURNE<UWI.TO>SHARES

Dumez Investments Inc said it is accepting and paying for 478,125 shares of United Westburne Industries Ltd in response to its 25 dlr per share tender offer and it has extended the offer until June 26. Dumez, 70 pct owned by Dumez SA <DUMP.PA> and 30 pct by Unicorp Canada Corp <UNIA.TO>, said the 478,125 shares represent 81.6 pct of those not controlled by Westburne International Ltd, which Dumez previously acquired in a tender. Reuter 
CSR SAYS IT IS PROCEEDING WITH OFFER FOR MONIER

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> intends to proceed with its planned bid for building materials group Monier Ltd <MNRA.S> despite the counter-bid from <Equiticorp Tasman Ltd> (ETL), CSR executive director Gene Herbert told Reuters. ETL said today it would offer 4.15 dlrs each for Monier's issued capital of 156.28 mln shares, plus a share alternative. This compares with a 3.80 dlr cash element in CSR's proposed bid. The proposed offer by ETL, controlled by New Zealand entrepreneur Allan Hawkins, came after it built up a 14.99 pct stake in Monier in a 95 mln dlr share raid in recent days. Herbert said Britain's Redland Plc <RDLD.L>, which holds just under 50 pct of Monier, still supported the CSR bid and had told CSR it is not a seller. He said Redland wanted to maintain and build on its operations in Australia and the U.S., Where Monier has built up a strong presence, notably in roofing tile manufacture. The CSR offer contains a put and call option agreement with Redland. This enables Redland to accept the CSR bid within six months of its close or to lift its stake to 50.1 pct in the same period and to run Monier as a joint venture with CSR. CSR has said that Redland will take up the second option. ETL has declined to say why it intervened in Monier, beyond describing it as a long term investment. ETL would bring no synergies to Monier, unlike CSR which is a leader in building materials, Herbert said. "We fit better with Monier," he said. CSR has said that it will concentrate development on its core businesses of sugar and building materials after its moves into energy several years ago. Asked what he thought ETL's bid sought to achieve, Herbert said: "I'm puzzled as to what Hawkins' strategy is. One has to wonder if Monier is the main target." Herbert said CSR had no plans to raise its bid, and said a higher price would be difficult to justify on fundamentals. Monier was trading at 2.80 dlrs when CSR launched its original bid of 3.50, or 16.8 times earnings, in late April. The shares closed at 3.90 dlrs today, down 25 cents on yesterday, after ETL withdrew on reaching the top foreign shareholding level permitted without Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval. Its bid is subject to FIRB approval. Herbert also said that institutions, which are more likely to accept a share alternative than cash, would have to judge the respective values of ETL and CSR shares. ETL is the third group to become involved in a possible acquisition of Monier this year. Redland held discussions on a possible takeover before the CSR bid emerged but the negotiations foundered on the price. Share analysts said that for this reason, they did not think ETL's intervention would flush out a full Redland bid although Monier's ultimate fate rests in its hands. "Redland is still in the driving seat," said Tim Cohen of <Ord Minnett Ltd>, adding that Redland would be happier having CSR as a partner in running Monier than ETL. Monier's independent directors have recommended ETL's bid. REUTER 
ELDERS HAPPY TO LEAVE CARLING SHARES OUTSTANDING

Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> says it is happy to leave preferences shares of brewer Carling O'Keefe Ltd outstanding after an undisclosed bidder made an offer to acquire all of Carling's outstanding preferred stock. Elders, which owns 100 pct of Carling's outstanding common shares, previously proposed to redeem the 433,745 Carling series A preferred shares at 33.50 Canadian dlrs each and redeem the 386,662 series B preferreds at 40 dlrs a share. The series A and B preferred shares carry no vote while dividends are paid. Elders says neither it nor Carling knows the identity of the bidder for Carling's preferred shares. On May 29, the bidder offered to acquire the Carling preferred for 36 dlrs for each series A and 40.50 dlrs for each series B share. Elders said leaving the Carling preferred shares outstanding will not affect ongoing plans of the company. Series B preferred shareholders had previously rejected Carling's proposal to redeem the shares and a series A preferred shareholders meeting was adjourned to June 12. Reuter 
NETI TECHNOLOGIES <NETFC.O> SELLS SUBSIDIARY

Neti Technologies Inc said it has sold for over four mln dlrs U.S. in cash, notes and the assumption of liabilities its Huron Leasing Inc subsidiary to a group of investors headed by a former Huron executive. The company said the transaction will yield about two mln dlrs in cash, Huron sells, leases and services computer hardware. The transaction is subject to approval by the Montreal and Vancouver Stock Exchange and the arrangement of financing by June 15. Reuter 
HOLLLINGER <HLG.TO> PAYING 50 MLN DLRS FOR BUY

Hollinger Inc will pay about 50 mln dlrs cash for its previously reported acquisition of privately owned Unimedia Inc, chairman Conrad Black told reporters after the annual meeting, confirming a published report. Commenting on press reports about the 50 mln dlr price tag, Black said, "That would not be wildly inaccurate," although he declined to disclose the actual cost. Montreal-based Unimedia is Quebec's third largest newspaper group, with three French language daily newspapers in Quebec City, Ottawa and Chicoutimi, Quebec and four printing plants in Ontario and Quebec. Black added that Hollinger would also continue seeking acquisitions of daily newspapers with circulation under 25,000 readers. He said Hollinger was currently talking to about 10 such newspapers in the U.S. where the company currently owns 23 dailies. "There is really no end to the ones that are available," he told reporters, although he added that most remaining acquisition opportunities are in the U.S. He said that Hollinger's 58 pct-owned Daily Telegraph PLC, of London, should become profitable in this year's fourth quarter. For full-year 1987, the Daily Telegraph could break even or better, said Black, citing major reductions in labor costs and improved technology at the Telegraph, Britain's largest circulation quality daily. The Telegraph lost 13.2 mln Canadian dlrs last year. Daily Telegraph chief executive Andrew Knight told reporters after the meeting that the Telegraph's daily circulation had risen by 25,000 since September to about 1,150,000 on weekdays, despite added competition from the new Independent daily newspaper. Knight said The Independent was not affecting the Telegraph's growth, but was making inroads into the circulation of other London quality dailies such as The Times and The Guardian. Hollinger chairman Black predicted Hollinger would post 1987 net income of about 55 mln dlrs, or one dlr a share, including extraordinary gains from previous sales of discontinued operations. Hollinger lost 87 mln dlrs or 6.54 dlrs a share last year on fewer average shares and after an extraordinary loss of 52 mln dlrs. Black told shareholders that first quarter operating earnings on continuing operations amounted to 499,000 dlrs against a year-ago loss of 165,000 dlrs. Revenues on continuing operations rose to 102.1 mln dlrs from 1.5 mln dlrs last year, which did not include Daily Telegraph revenues, he added. Consolidated first quarter figures were not disclosed. He said the Daily Telegraph's first quarter operating loss was sharply reduced from last year. Reuter 
AMOCO <AN> SAYS DOME <DMP> BUY GOOD FOR CANADA

Amoco Corp's wholly owned Amoco Canada Petroleum Co Ltd said its proposed 5.22-billion- Canadian-dlr acquisition of Dome Petroleum Ltd will benefit Canada just like the foreign investment that made possible commercial development of Alberta's oilsands. Amoco Canada president T. Don Stacy told an oilsands conference that "Amoco Canada has presented the solution to the Dome problem, and we're investing our confidence, dollars and determination to make that solution work." The Amoco buyout of debt-burdened Dome has angered Canadian nationalists, who want a Canadian buyer for Dome. Stacy described Amoco Canada's previously reported share offer proposal as a chance to increase Canadian ownership of the country's oil and gas industry, now at about 50 pct. He reiterated that Amoco planned virtually no layoffs of Dome employees. He also reaffirmed that Amoco would reinvest in Amoco Canada-Dome properties all available cash flow for five years after the acquisition. Reuter 
AUSTRALIA'S ANSETT TO TAKE 20 PCT OF AMERICA WEST

Australia's <Ansett Airlines> will exercise an option to acquire 20 pct of America West Airlines Inc <AWAL.O> for about 31.5 mln U.S. Dlrs, <Ansett Transport Industries Ltd> managing director Peter Abeles said. Exercise, involving the purchase of about three mln new America West shares for 10.50 U.S. Dlrs each, was scheduled to be finalised in July or August, he said in a statement. Abeles said Ansett would become the largest single shareholder in what he said was the fastest growing airline in the United States. America West is based in Phoenix, Arizona. Under the terms of the option agreement, Ansett would have the right to maintain its 20 pct position in the event of future stock sales, but could not go beyond 20 pct unless so requested by America West, Abeles said. America West would retain the right of first refusal if Ansett offered any of the shares for sale. In addition, Ansett would gain one board seat, he said. Ansett Transport Industries wholly owns Ansett Airlines, one of Australia's two major domestic airlines, and is in turn owned 50/50 by Abeles' international transport group TNT Ltd <TNTA.S> and Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd <NCPA.S>. REUTER 
DAIRY FARM BIDS 146.6 MLN STG FOR 22 PCT KWIK SAVE

<Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd> said in a statement it is making a tender offer for 22 pct of Kwik Save Discount Group Plc <KWIK.L> of Britain for a total 146.6 mln stg. Dairy Farm said it will offer to buy up to 32.58 mln Kwik Save shares at 4.50 stg each. The offer will bring Dairy Farm's stake in Kwik Save to 25 pct from the present 3.5 pct, or 5.25 mln shares. The offer, which will begin on Monday and ends June 30, requires that the shares tendered will bring its stake to at least 15 pct. Dairy Farm said it will finance the acquisition by placing 89 mln shares with affiliate Jardine Strategic Holdings Ltd <JARS.HK> at 5.10 H.K. Dlrs each for a total of 454 mln dlrs. The placement will raise Jardine Strategic's stake in Dairy Farm to 39.75 pct from the current 35.3 pct. It said the Kwik Save purchase will also be financed with a loan from the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp <HKBH.HK>. It did not give the size of the loan but it said it would raise its net bank borrowings to a maximum of 2.2 billion H.K. Dlrs. Dairy Farm said it would reduce its bank borrowings by the proceeds from the previously announced sale of its office building in Sydney for 625 mln dlrs. It will consider raising additional capital, most probably through a placement of convertible preference shares in the Euromarket, it added. Company chairman Simon Keswick said the U.K. Market "offers attractive opportunities for competitively priced food retailers" and that "a strategic investment in Kwik Save offers the best vehicle to pursue those opportunities." REUTER 
GOVERNMENT TO SELL 25 PCT OF AIR NEW ZEALAND

The New Zealand Government will sell 25 pct of state-owned <Air New Zealand Ltd> to the public, Civil Aviation minister Richard Prebble said. Prebble said in a statement the government would appoint an adviser to help it decide how the shares should be sold, the timing of any sales and the price. "Clearly there will be a need to gauge the effect of other proposed share issues so as to enter the market at the best opportunity," Prebble said. "We are in no particular rush to sell our shares in Air New Zealand," he said. "Our aim is to maximise the benefit to the taxpayer. If that means waiting for a while, then so be it," Prebble said. He said Air New Zealand expects to release its results soon for the year to March 31 1987. He said he was confident it would post an excellent profit. Prebble said Air New Zealand was successful but its ability to prosper in future was hampered by its wholly-government-owned status. Prebble said access to new sources of capital would increase its ability to expand and develop. This sale announcement follows the public float in March of around 13 pct of the <Bank of New Zealand Ltd>. The government has said it will also float part of the capital of other state-owned operations, including <DFC New Zealand Ltd>, formerly Development Finance Corp of New Zealand Ltd, and Petroleum Corp of New Zealand Ltd. REUTER 
FRENCH STATE SELL-OFFS RAISE 52 BILLION FRANCS

The French government's privatisation program, which began late last year, has earned the French State about 52 billion francs to date, the Finance Ministry said. Sources close to Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the revenues raised from the privatisation program would be used in priority to pay off public debt, which stood at 398.2 billion at the end of 1986. The Ministry said in a communique that the returns included banking group Societe Generale <SGEN.PA>, which began its two-week public flotation last Monday. The government has carried out eight flotations, as well as the private sale of telephone group <Cie Generale de Constructions Telephoniques> (CGCT) since its denationalisation scheme began last December with the sell-off of glass makers Saint-Gobain <SGEP.PA>, it added. The government has pledged to privatise 66 state-owned industrial, banking and insurance companies by 1991. Other companies to be sold to the private sector in the near future are television network TF-1 later this month and banking group Cie Financiere de Suez <FSPP.PA> in the autumn. The ministry said TF-1's forthcoming sell-off meant that a third of the government's programme would have been completed in less than nine months. Balladur on Sunday rejected press and opposition charges that the share prices for privatised companies had been pitched too low. He said that the average premium of shares trading on the Bourse was between 15 and 30 pct over their offer price. This compared with premiums of between 60 and 80 pct on similar share flotations in Britain. REUTER 
CSR DECLARES PIONEER SUGAR BID UNCONDITIONAL

CSR Ltd <CSRA.S> said it had declared unconditional its takeover bid for <Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd> following Pioneer's recommendation that shareholders accept. This meant Pioneer shareholders would be paid for all shares tendered within 14 days, CSR said in a statement. CSR's statement follows Industrial Equity Ltd's <INEA.S> disclosure yesterday that it had built up a 9.8 pct stake in Pioneer at 2.54 dlrs a share, topping CSR's cash bid of 2.50. CSR is also offering one share, currently worth 4.04 dlrs, plus 1.20 cash, for every two Pioneer shares, which values Pioneer at 2.62 per share. It holds about 33 pct of Pioneer. REUTER 
SANDVIK, DIAMANT BOART FINALISE DRILLS MERGER

Sweden's Sandvik AB <SVIK.ST> and Diamant Boart SA of Belgium, in which Societe Generale de Belgique <BELB.BR> holds an indirect 52 pct stake, have finalised negotiations on merging oil and gas drilling tool activities, officials of both companies said. Staffan Paues, President of the new Brussels-based joint venture company Diamant Boart Stratabit SA (DBS), told a news conference that the merged firm would be able to offer products for all types of drilling operations. He said there were already signs that a slow recovery from recession was under way in the oil and gas industries. "Stability in oil prices should lead to renewed investment" Paues said. DBS, which Paues said began operations today, brings together Sandvik's wholly-owned U.S. Subsidiary Strata Bit Corp of Houston and Diamant Boart's petroleum activities in Europe, North America, the Middle and Far East and Africa. Paues said the merger was a direct result of the sharp fall in oil prices 18 months ago which led oil firms to cut back exploration activities. Officials said the complementary character of the two firms' operations was a further reason. REUTER 
THOMSON TAKES OVER THORN EMI AUDIOVISUAL

Thomson Grand Public, the subsidiary of Thomson SA <THMP.PA>, has taken over the audiovisual consumer goods division of British group Thorn EMI, Thomson Grand Public chairman Pierre Garcin said. The cost of the deal, signed late yesterday, is around 90 mln stg and Thomson will finance 50 mln of this from its equity. Thorn EMI is a leader in the British audiovisual market with a turnover last year of 300 mln stg. Garcin said the new acquisition would substantially increase Thomson's turnover in the sector. REUTER 
HOLLINGER <HLG.TO> COMPLETES UNIMEDIA TAKEOVER

Hollinger Inc said it completed the previously reported acquisition of privately held Unimedia Inc, the owner of three French language daily newspapers and four printing plants in Ontario and Quebec. The company, which owns 58 pct of (Daily Telegraph Plc) said it named former Carling O'Keefe Ltd chief executive Pierre Des Marais as chief executive of La Societe Media Quebec, the unit acquiring Unimedia. It said his appointment is effective July 2. Reuter 
KELLEY OIL <KLY> BUYING OIL PROPERTIES

Kelley Oil and Gas Partners Ltd said it has agreed to purchase all of CF Industries Inc's oil and natural gas properties for about 5,500,000 dlrs, effective July 1. It said the Louisiana properties had proven reserves at year-end of 11 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 85,000 barrels of oil, condensate and natural gas liquids. Kelley said it currently owns working interests in some of the properties. Reuter 
NOVA <NVAA.TO> CONSIDERING BID FOR DOME <DMP>

Nova Corp is considering a takeover bid for Dome Petroleum Ltd, either alone or as part of a consortium, Nova chairman Bob Blair said. "We are thinking about making an offer to Dome or Amoco (Canada Petroleum Co Ltd) or the creditors," Blair told reporters before the annual meeting. Amoco Canada is a unit of Amoco Corp <AN>, which has made a 5.2 billion-dlr acquisition offer for Dome. "There is ongoing, serious thought applied to Dome in Nova and in Husky, but no decision of substance as to future action has been taken in either company," Blair said. Nova owns 43 pct of Husky Oil Ltd <HYO.TO>. Blair also said that Nova has made no decision as to whether it would want to be lead partner in a joint purchase of Dome. He added that some of the discussions with other parties about Dome included TransCanada PipeLines Ltd <TRP>, but refused to name the other participants. Reuter 
TOTAL ERICKSON <TLE.T> BUYS MINING PROPERTY

Total Erickson Resources Ltd and Consolidated Silver Standard Mines Ltd <CDS.V> said that Total Erickson has purchased all Consolidated's interests in its Dome Mountain property for 60,000 Total Erickson shares and 70,000 dlrs in cash. The companies said the property has several gold-bearing veins and has considerable exploration potential. Reuter 
UNION <UEL.TO> ENDS PACT TO SELL CANBRA <CBF.TO>

Union Enterprises Ltd said its agreement to sell its interest in Canbra Foods Ltd to Macluan Capital Corp has been terminated. Union said Macluan failed to make an offer for Union's 72 pct interest in Canbra before the June 22 deadline. Union said it is no longer bound by the agreement and is continuing to seek a buyer for the interest. Reuter 
MCCHIP <MCS.TO> TO ACQUIRE RESERVE HOLDING

McChip Resources Inc said it has agreed to exchange its interest in Oklahoma oil and gas properties operated by Reserve Exploration Co <REXC.O> for 638,435 restricted Reserve common shares. The company said it will have a 44 pct stake in Reserve's outstanding shares as a result of the exchange. Reuter 
CDC LIFE SCIENCES <LSI.TO> STAKE SOLD

Canada Development Corp <CDC.TO> said it agreed to sell its 25.2 pct interest in CDC Life Sciences Inc to Caisse de depot et placement du Quebec, the provincial pension fund manager, and Institut Merieux, a French biological laboratory company, for 169.2 mln dlrs. It said the caisse and Institut Merieux will each buy 2.75 mln common shares of the company for 30.76 dlrs a share. It said following the transaction the caisse will hold about 19.3 pct of CDC Life Sciences. Canada Development said the purchasers do not plan to acquire the remaining publicly-held shares. Reuter 
STE-GENEVIEVE UPS OFFER FOR SULLIVAN <SUM.TO>

Ste-Genevieve Resources Ltd said it increased its cash takeover bid for Sullivan Mines Inc shares to 7.25 dlrs a share. It did not give the original bid. The offer is for a minimum five mln common shares and a maximum six mln shares, the company said. It gave no further details. Reuter 
IEP LIFTS ULTRAMAR AND OGELBAY NORTON STAKES

<Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd>, (IEP) the Hong Kong-listed unit of Brierley Investments Ltd <BRYA.WE>, said it has lifted its stakes in British oil company Ultramar Plc <UMAR.L> and U.S. Firm <Ogelbay Norton Co>. IEP told the Stock Exchange it now holds 36.03 mln Ultramar shares representing 13.07 pct of the issued capital. It holds 388,600 shares in Ogelbay representing 11.68 pct of the Delaware-based company. No other details were available. REUTER 
LASMO CANADA TO MERGE WITH ONYX PETROLEUM

LASMO Exploration (Canada) Ltd, a subsidiary of London & Scottish Marine Oil Plc <LSML.L>, is merging with <Onyx Petroleum Exploration Co Ltd>, LASMO said. The merger is to be made by Onyx buying LASMO Exploration, in a share swap. A new company, LASMO Canada Inc, will be formed. LASMO will control 70 pct of the equity, worth some 76 mln Canadian dlrs based on the current Onyx share price. The new company will have proven reserves of 9.5 mln barrels of oil and 20.9 billion cubic feet of gas, LASMO said. Reuter 
GORDON TO MAKE BID TO ACQUIRE PAGECORP <PGOA.TO>

<Gordon Investment Corp> said it plans to make an offer to acquire all of Pagecorp Inc's class A and Class B shares for 9.25 dlrs cash per share. The bid is conditional upon an examination by Gordon of the business and affairs of Pagecorp during the 45 days ending December 3, 1987. The proposed offer would be condition upon ainimum number of shares being tendered, Gordon said. It did not say what the minimum will be. Meanwhile, Pagecorp said it agreed to grant Gordon an option to purchaser 900,000 class A shares at 9.25 dlrs per share, which is exercisable only if Gordon makes the acquisition bid before December 4, 1987 or if any third party begins a takeover before December 31, 1987. Pagecorp also said all Class B shareholders have agreed to deposit their class B shares, if Gordon proceeds with its offer. Reuter 
ERICSSON SELLS OFFICE MACHINE DIVISION

Telefon AB L M Ericsson <ERIC.ST> said it would sell its office machinery unit, with a turnover of two billion crowns, to Norway's <Norska Design Funktion A/S>. Ericsson Information Systems, of which the unit is a part, said in a statement a decision would be reached in November about when the Norwegian firm would take over the operation. No price was given for the deal. EIS managing director Stig Larsson said the deal would allow EIS to concentrate on voice and data communication products. REUTER 
CORBY DISTILLERIES <CDL.TO> TO BUY HEUBLEIN UNIT

Corby Distilleries Ltd said it has agreed to buy Toronto-based McGuinness Distillers Ltd from Heublein Inc for about 45 mln dlrs in a move which Corby expects to add significantly to domestic earnings. Heublin is a subsidiary of Grand Metropolitan PLC (GMHL.L). Corby said McGuinness will remain a seperate business unit with a seperate sales force. McGuinness markets liquers, brandy, and other liquors and has entered the fast-expanding wine cooler market, Corby said. Corby said it expects to benefit from McGuinness's succesfull introduction of schnapps and coolers and its strength in traditional market sectors. Heublein said the sale does not include McGuinness's Calona Wines Ltd, a Canadian wine company. Heublein said it is will still be represented in Canada by Gilbey Canada Inc. reuter Reuter 
CABLE AND WIRELESS RESTRUCTURES H.K. UNITS

Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> said its subsidiary <Hong Kong Telephone Co Ltd> would cease to be a listed company, following the restructure of the company's Hong Kong units. Earlier today the company announced that Hong Kong Telephone and Cable and Wireless Hong Kong, in which the territory's government has a 20 pct stake, would become subsidiaries of a newly formed holding company, Hong Kong Telecommunications. In exchange for the Cable and Wireless Hong Kong capital, Hong Kong Telecommunications will issue 4.18 billion new shares to Cable and Wireless Plc's Cable and Wireless (Far East) Ltd. That subsidiary now holds the group's 80 pct stake in Cable and Wireless Hong Kong and about 22 pct of H.K. Telephone. It will issue an additional 1.05 billion shares to the goverment. That will leave the Cable and Wireless group with an 80 pct stake in Hong Kong Telecommunications, the government 11 pct and nine pct in public hands. But that will be reduced early next year after a placement of 11 pct of the issued shares of Hong Kong Telecommunications by both Cable and Wireless and the government. Reuter 
CABLE AND WIRELESS DETAILS MERGER OF H.K. UNITS

Cable and Wireless Plc <CAWL.L> said it will merge its Hong Kong Telephone Co Ltd <TELH.HK> and <Cable and Wireless (Hong Kong) Ltd> units into a new holding firm to be called <Hong Kong Telecommunications Ltd>. Under the merger, H.K. Telephone shareholders will receive two H.K. Telecommunication shares at a par value of 50 H.K. Cents for each H.K. Telephone share at par of one dlr. H.K. Telephone shareholders other than the Cable and Wireless group will receive warrants on a one-for-five basis entitling them to acquire from Cable and Wireless Plc within five years one H.K. Telecom share at 10 dlrs each. The Cable and Wireless Plc group now holds some 70 pct of H.K. Telephone. It also owns 80 pct of Cable and Wireless (Hong Kong), while the Hong Kong government holds the balance. Trading in H.K. Telephone shares was suspended on October 15. The shares last traded at 19.30 dlrs. REUTER 
N.Z.'S CHASE CORP MAKES OFFER FOR ENTREGROWTH

Chase Corp Ltd <CHCA.WE> said it will make an offer for all fully-paid shares and options of <Entregrowth International Ltd> it does not already own. Chase, a property investment firm, said it holds 48 pct of Entregrowth, its vehicle for expansion in North America. It said agreements are being concluded to give it a beneficial 72.4 pct interest. The offer for the remaining shares is one Chase share for every three Entregrowth shares and one Chase option for every four Entregrowth options. Chase shares closed on Friday at 4.41 dlrs and the options at 2.38. Entregrowth closed at 1.35 dlrs and options at 55 cents. Chase said the offer for the remaining 27.6 pct of Entregrowth, worth 34.2 mln dlrs, involved the issue of 5.80 mln Chase shares and 3.10 mln Chase options. Chase chairman Colin Reynolds said the takeover would allow Entregrowth to concentrate on North American operations with access to Chase's international funding base and a stronger executive team. He said there also would be benefits from integrating New Zealand investment activities. Chase said the offer is conditional it receiving accptances for at least 90 pct of the shares and options. REUTER 
