GERMAN EUROBOND MARKET EXPECTS BREATHING SPACE

After an onslaught of new paper, fewer mark eurobonds issues are expected this week, bankers said. Most managers said they were planning a low issue volume for the Bundesbank's two-week bond calendar beginning today. "We want to have a week's pause," one manager said. Last week borrowings totalled 1.775 billion marks, including a 300 mln mark private placement for Deutsche Bank. Issues for all of February rose to nearly five billion marks, from 3.6 billion in January. The heavy volume also meant most borrowers except the very best addresses were having to accept higher coupons. "I think the D-mark market is still good, but only if you can give a good coupon," another manager said. But even some government borrowers were not getting the best reception for bonds which would have been taken up more readily under other conditions. Of the three mark eurobonds launched on Tuesday alone, bonds for Den Danske Bank and Iceland were trading outside fees on Friday, although prices had recovered from initial lows. Den Danske's 5-3/4 1992 bond was quoted at midday on Friday at 97.35/65 compared with its par price, and Iceland's 6-1/2 pct 1997 bond traded at 97.25/75 against a 100-1/4 issue price. A 300 mln mark 6-1/8 pct 1997 issue for Nippon Telegraph and Telephone was also depressed, but traded Friday within fees at 98.15, 98.50 from its par price. Some shorter maturities did better. In contrast to the 10-year NTT and Iceland issues, a five-year six pct bond for Hoogovens, traded at 98.40/75 from its 99-1/2 price, thanks mainly to its shorter maturity, dealers said. The large amount of paper brought to the market in the last two months has also led many syndicate managers to complain about the Bundesbank's present fixed calendar system, which they say is too inflexible. Currently all mark denominated eurobonds have to be registered with the Bundesbank in the week preceding the two-week issue period. A bank may decline to issue a bond on the requested day in the calendar, but then has to wait for the next calendar period to schedule the bond again. Some managers said they would prefer to abolish the system. The Bundesbank shortened the reporting period to two weeks from four weeks last July. But few expect the calendar to be completely abolished. "I don't think the Bundesbank would give that up," one banking analyst said. "I wouldn't have anything against getting rid of the system," the analyst said, adding banks were capable of regulating the volume of new issues themselves. The Bundesbank plays a passive role in setting the calendar without trying to regulate the issues, but it needs the registration to gauge the volume of mark bonds going through the euromarket, he said. For this reason, few managers here foresee the Bundesbank sacrificing its present calendar system. Bond activity in West German bond trading and syndication departments is also expected to be quieter than normal owing to the carnival holiday. Carnival will close banks in Duesseldorf all day on Monday. In Frankfurt, banks will close on Tuesday in the afternoon. REUTER 
EC MINISTERS BID TO SAVE DAIRY ACCORD

European Community (EC) farm ministers were fighting hard early today to prevent a deal on cutting overflowing milk production from turning sour before trying to agree widescale reforms in other surplus sectors. Meanwhile, protests from angry European farmers over successive attempts to scale down unwanted Community food production appeared to be gathering strength. In the northeastern Spanish city of Saragossa thousands of Spanish farmers battled with police during a march to demand a better deal from Brussels. The farmers traded stones for tear gas and rubber pellets and occupied local government buildings while in the southern city of Malaga, citrus growers dumped more 20 tonnes of lemons on the streets in protest at EC duties. Towards the end of last week, about 10,000 angry West German farmers marched through the streets of Hanover burning effigies of Agriculture Minister Ignaz Kiechle while in France pig-farmers barricaded roads in protest at falling prices. Europe's 12 mln farmers are furious over plans by the European Commission to cut subsidised prices and severely limit farmers' automatic right to sell unwanted food into public stores at high guaranteed EC prices. In the toughest-ever proposals for the annual price review, at which EC ministers set the levels of subsidies, Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen has included measures that could result in price cuts for some products of up to 11 pct. The plans form part of an on-going campaign to reform surplus-creating farm policies that have become a political embarrassment at home and commercial flash-point abroad and threatened to leave the Community with no cash for other areas. Andriessen's latest package comes only months after a decision to cut dairy production by 9.5 pct over two years and to slash beef prices by around 10 pct. That decision, agreed in outline last December after virtually nine days of non-stop negotiations, was hailed as the most significant step yet in the reform offensive, but has since run into difficulties over the fine print. West Germany and Ireland are objecting to the new rules governing the sales of surplus butter into cold stores, but the Commission is loathe to abandon its position as the accord has been used as the inspiration for Andriessen's latest package. Ministers failed yesterday to overcome the problem, and resumed negotiations in a bid to finalise the details before starting the price review which is confidently predicted to last many months. EC farm spending currently swallows two thirds of an overall annual budget of around 40 billion dlrs and is almost entirely blamed for a projected budget shortfall later this year of some 5.7 billion dlrs. Reuter 
DEGUSSA COMBINES PHARMACEUTICAL INTERESTS

Degussa AG <DGSG.F> is combining its foreign and domestic pharmaceutical activities into the Frankfurt-based <Asta Pharma AG>, so as to promote its business in that sector, the company said. Group consolidated turnover in Degussa's pharmaceuticals sector rose to 380 mln marks in 1985/86 to September 30 from 377 mln marks in the preceding year, the company said. Turnover from all pharmaceutical interests, including minority holdings, was 700 mln marks in 1985/86, somewhat higher than in the preceding year. The company did not disclose exact 1984/85 results in that sector, a spokesman said. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKS SEEK GREATER BRAZIL LINK WITH IMF

West German banks would like Brazil to work more closely with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) with a view to seeking a solution to the country's debt problems, senior West German banking sources said. The sources, speaking ahead of a meeting later today between Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro and his West german counterpart Gerhard Stoltenberg, also believed Brazil should come up with a convincing economic recovery program. Their comments echoed those of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, who met Funaro yesterday. Funaro is currently on a European trip seeking to involve governments in negotiations with commercial banks on rescheduling part of Brazil's foreign debt, which totals some 109 billion dlrs. But Lawson told Funaro Brazil had to solve its problems with the banks rather than governments. Diplomatic sources in Bonn said Funaro would leave early tomorrow morning for Zurich after meeting Stoltenberg this evening. Funaro has rejected suggestions for negotiations with the IMF and said there is no question of Brazil agreeing to an austerity program with the Fund. However, the West German banking sources said institutions here felt it was particularly important that Brazil presented a credible recovery program and that there be a "rapprochement" with the IMF. "Consultations are the least that can be expected," said one banker. Funaro's trip follows the decision by Brazil 10 days ago to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt. It has also frozen bank and credit lines deposited by foreign banks and institutions worth about 15 billion dlrs. One senior banker closely involved in Brazilian debt negotiation offered qualified support for a call from Funaro for a change in the structure of the advisory committee of banks which has coordinated Brazilian debt since 1982. Funaro said yesterday that U.S. Banks, holding 35 pct of Brazilian debt, were over-represented on the 14-bank advisory committee with 50 pct of the committee seats. He said Brazil might adopt a different approach to its creditor banks, involving separate discussions with the regions. Such a move would be in Brazil's interest, since European banks have been more supportive than U.S. Banks of alternative debt solutions, such as interest capitalisation. The senior banker was strongly opposed to a purely regional approach, saying: "There must be one committee and one solution." But he added: "There must be an understanding that special requests from special regions be taken into account." German banks had objected to the fact that the idea of interest capitalisation had been rejected in the committee. It was imperative that alternative options be considered. "The menu must become richer," the banker said. Banking sources said commercial banks would not be involved in today's talks with Funaro. A spokesman for the Bundesbank in Frankfurt said the central bank would also not be represented. West German banks have taken a more relaxed attitude to the Brazilian suspension of interest payments than institutions in the United States, because of their lower exposure. According to Bundesbank data from September last year, West German bank exposure to Latin America of slightly under 16 billion marks represented less than five pct of all foreign credit. REUTER 
DAIMLER OUTPUT COULD BE AFFECTED BY DISPUTE

Daimler-Benz AG [DAIG.F] said its car production could fall by 150 cars a day in the foreseeable future if works councils continue to refuse to approve the firm's requests for employees to work overtime when necessary. A company spokesman said the works council at Daimler's Unterturkheim plant, which makes axles and other components for Daimler cars, has withheld approval for overtime since the beginning of the month. The IG Metall metalworkers union in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg has called on works councils in the state to reject overtime in a bid to get industry to employ more workers. The Daimler spokesman said the lack of overtime work at the Unterturkheim plant could eventually affect car output at other plants but added he was unable to say when this might occur. A spokesman for Dr.-Ing. H.C. F. Porsche AG [PSHG.F], which is also located in Baden-Wuerttemberg, said he did not think Porsche would suffer any loss of production because of a ban on overtime by its own works councils. A strike by IG Metall in Baden-Wuerttemberg in 1984 closed down the German car industry for about seven weeks as the union sought to win a 35-hour working week for its members. It later settled for a reduction in the working week to 38.5 hours. The spokesman said Daimler's total output of cars was currently around 2,500 a day. REUTER 
VDO UNIT AND THOMSON-CSF IN JOINT VENTURE

<VDO Luftfahrtgeraete Werk Adolf Schindling GmbH>, 75 pct owned by autoparts maker <VDO Adolf Schindling AG>, said it set up a joint venture with Thomson-CSF <TCSF.PA> of France to produce liquid crystal displays. It said in a statment that it held 20 pct of the new company called Eurodisplay and Thomson-CSF the remaining 80 pct. Thomson owns the remaining 25 pct of VDO Luftfahrtgeraete. The two companies have also agreed to pool their research on development, construction and assembly of the systems, for use in vehicles and aircraft, with General Electric Company <GEN> of the U.S. Reuter 
OILS/FATS STOCKS SEEN FALLING SHARPLY IN 1986/87

Visible stocks of 17 oils and fats are probably peaking now and are likely to fall sharply by October 1 this year, the Oil World newsletter said. Oil World forecast that stocks of oils and fats may be cut to only 9.8 mln tonnes at the end of this season, compared with 10.6 mln a year earlier. Its survey covered 13 oils -- soy, cotton, groundnut, sun, rape, sesame, corn, olive, coconut, palmkernel, palm, lin and castor -- and four animal oils and fats -- butter, fish oil, lard and tallow/greases. Oil World's analysis predicted only a slight production increase of 0.5 mln tonnes in the year to end-September 1987, compared with increases of 3.6 mln and 4.0 mln tonnes in the previous two seasons. It said world consumption was continuing to rise. Unusually low prices prevailing since early 1986 had stimulated demand for both food and non-food purposes, it said. World consumption could increase by a record 2.8 mln tonnes to 71.8 mln tonnes this season and would be even higher if the Indian government did not artificially curb domestic demand. Oil World said it did not expect the European Community (EC) to introduce a vegetable oils tax, but if such a tax were introduced it would have a negative impact on EC consumption. Reuter 
BRAZILIAN FINANCE MINISTER MEETS STOLTENBERG

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro, on the third leg of a trip to explain his country's stance on debt to European governments, met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg for talks this evening and the two men were continuing their discussions over dinner, Brazilian delegation sources said. They said the Funaro and Stoltenberg discussed Third World debt in general and Brazil's debt position in particular but declined to give further details. Funaro was scheduled to travel to Switzerland tomorrow, they added. Reuter 
GERMAN ENGINEERS WILL HOLD WARNING STRIKES MARCH 9

West German engineering union IG Metall will hold nationwide warning strikes on March 9, to press demands for a 35-hour week and a five pct wage increase, a union spokeswoman said. Further details of the time and place of the strikes will be given at a press conference on the same day, she added. In mid-February, IG Metall chairman Franz Steinkuehler called for the strikes after 35 unsuccessful rounds of talks. IG Metall shut down the entire auto industry for seven weeks in summer 1984 to press employers to cut the working week to 35 hours from 40. A compromise of 38.5 hours was agreed. REUTER 
WEST GERMANY, TANZANIA AGREE DEBT RESCHEDULING

West Germany and Tanzania have signed an agreement on rescheduling 145 mln marks worth of commercial credits, the Finance Ministry said. Tanzania will now have until April 1, 1997 to pay back the credits, some of which had originally fallen due in 1979, a ministry statement said. Interest on the credits will be paid at market rates. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK CHANGES REPURCHASE PACT SYSTEM

The Bundesbank is planning changes in the system by which banks bid for funds in securities repurchase pacts to improve the flexibility of its key open market instrument, central bank officials said. Banking economists said the changes will shorten the tender process to two days from three currently, enabling the Bundesbank to offer repurchase pacts of shorter maturity if it chooses, to steer money market liquidity more flexibly. The changes will probably come into force in April. Under the current system, banks must themselves specify at the tender which securities they will sell to the Bundesbank for subsequent repurchase, a time consuming business. Banks hold securities for this purpose in safe custody accounts in the Landeszentralbank (LZB) regional central banks, which are the local offices of the Bundesbank at state level. Some 50 billion marks of securities are held in such accounts at the Hesse LZB, which covers the Frankfurt area. The change to come into force next month will allow the Bundesbank access to these accounts to select the bonds itself, in a process legally comparable to direct debiting. At present the Bundesbank generally announces a tender on Monday, holds the tender late on Tuesday morning, announces the result early Tuesday afternoon and allocates funds Wednesday. The Bundesbank generally sets repurchase pacts running 28 days. But sometimes public holidays result in longer pacts or longer tender periods being necessary. For instance the Bundesbank announced a tender last Friday to be held today (Wednesday) for crediting funds tomorrow (Thursday). The advance announcement took into account the carnival holiday in Duesseldorf on Monday and in Frankfurt yesterday (Tuesday). Central bank officials and money market dealers said the shortening of the tender process should be seen as purely technical, with no direct implications for interest rates. "It is not a credit policy matter but a technical matter," said an official at the Hesse LZB. Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said last December that security repurchase pacts had proved a much greater success since their introduction in their present form two years ago, and praised their flexibility. The tender process changes will make the repurchase pact instrument even more flexible, banking economists said. By speeding up the tender process, they will make it possible for the Bundesbank to offer repurchase pacts for periods of less than a month, something long sought by banks, to respond to changing money market conditions. "With the help of this instrument liquidity steering will be refined, but there won't be any effect on interest rates," said Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bank economist Hermann Remsperger. The Bundesbank would be able to react more quickly to money market developments, but by steering liquidity, not interest rates, he said. REUTER 
GERMAN INSTITUTE SEES INFLATION RISING IN 1987

The cost of living in West Germany will likely be about 0.5 pct higher on average in 1987 than in 1986, when the cost of living actually fell by an average 0.2 pct in the first recurrence of "negative inflation" since the 1950s, the HWWA economic research institute said. The re-emergence of inflation will result mainly from the fading of two factors which influenced the fall in the 1986 cost of living - the steep decline in both oil prices and the value of the dollar, the institute said in a report. The institute said inflation will see a rising trend in the course of 1987, but will average only 0.5 pct for the year as a whole because year on year rates will remain negative in the first part of 1987. Provisional inflation figures for February released last week showed the cost of living last month was 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. In January prices had fallen 0.8 pct against the same month a year earlier. The HWWA said its forecast assumed the dollar would remain around 1.80 marks and oil prices would range between 15 and 17 dlrs per barrel. REUTER 
WORLD BANK SAYS S. AMERICAN DEBTORS STILL TALKING

Latin American debtor nations are still willing to negotiate on their debts, World Bank director for Latin America and the Caribbean Rainer Steckhan said. In an article published in today's Handelsblatt daily, Steckhan said despite decisions by Peru, Costa Rica, Ecuador and Brazil to suspend some interest payments, these nations were still willing to talk constructively about their debts. "These countries are still prepared to negotiate, and the instruments of cooperation developed thus far provide the means to deal with the crisis over time," Steckhan said. Several highly indebted nations have made great efforts to meet their debt payments, especially Latin American countries, Steckhan said. Chile achieved gross national product growth of five to six pct last year and quadrupled its trade surplus from 1984, despite lower prices of key commodity exports like copper. Mexico, hit by a catastrophic earthquake and declines in world oil prices also boosted its non-oil exports by one third in 1986, the highest growth rate in its post-war history. The World Bank's annual lending to Latin America rose to 4.8 billion dlrs last year from three billion in 1984, he said. REUTER 
MCDONALDS LAUNCHES 75 MLN AUS DLR EUROBOND

McDonalds Corp is raising 75 mln Australian dollars through a 14-5/8 pct bullet eurobond priced at 101-1/4 and maturing November 5, 1991, lead manager Bayerische Vereinsbank AG said. Investors will pay for the bond on May 5, 1987 and the bond pays annual interest on November 5, beginning in 1988. There will be a 1-3/8 point fee for selling and 5/8 for management and underwriting combined. Listing is in Luxembourg. Denominations are 1,000 and 5,000 dlrs. REUTER 
GERMAN ECONOMIC OUTLOOK SEEN FAIRLY BRIGHT

The outlook for the West German economy is relatively bright, with gross national product expected to expand by three pct this year, Kiel University's Institute for World Economy said. The GNP forecast by the institute, one of five leading economic research bodies in West Germany, is more optimistic than that of the other institutes, some of which have recently reduced their GNP forecasts to between two and 2.5 pct. In a report the Kiel institute said West Germany's export outlook has not deteriorated fundamentally despite the mark's strength against the dollar and other major currencies. "The danger that exports will slump in 1987 appears, all in all, limited," the report said. "On the contrary, a slight rise in exports can be expected." The institute said past experience has shown West German exporters will move to counterbalance currency factors by cutting costs, trying to penetrate new markets and adjusting their product ranges. They will be aided in 1987 by an expected slight rise in economic growth in industrial countries. At the same time, the decline in exports to oil producing countries looks set to slow this year. West German GNP growth in 1987 will be led by renewed advances in domestic consumption and investment spending, both of which will in turn be buoyed by an expansionary monetary policy, the institute said. However, it said the labour market would see only a slight improvement because companies will be reluctant to hire additional workers due to higher labour costs caused partly by agreed reductions in working hours. The institute cautioned that the expansionary stance of monetary policy in West Germany was likely to bring a marked acceleration of inflation. It also warned that what it called the worldwide synchronization of monetary policy heightened the risk of a new global recession. It said central banks in industrialized countries, including the Bundesbank, had followed the Federal Reserve Board's expansionary course. The institute said this in turn was bound to lead eventually to a rise in worldwide inflation and a shift in U.S. Policy towards a more restrictive policy. Other central banks were likely to follow suit, causing a recession that could aggravate the debt crisis of developing countries as well as increase protectionism around the world. Although Germany cannot entirely shield itself from the negative effects of the global synchronization of monetary policy, it should do all it can to strengthen the forces of growth at home. The institute said this could be done by ensuring that fiscal policy fosters a willingness to work and invest. Taxes should be cut by a greater amount than currently planned, and wage increases in 1987 and 1988 should be markedly lower than in 1986. It also said the Bundesbank should reduce inflationary pressures by cutting the current rate of growth in money supply to about four pct. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED

The Bundesbank left credit policies unchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and the Lombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER 
KIECHLE SEES POSITIVE ASPECTS IN EC MILK ACCORD

West German Farm Minister Ignaz Kiechle, who objected strongly to this week's European Community agreement to cut milk surpluses, conceded the accord would have the positive effect of stabilizing prices. According to the text of a speech made in the town of Trudering, near Munich, Kiechle said farmers' earnings would benefit from more stable prices. He said he had rejected the agreement because he preferred there to be no change in the EC's system of intervention. However, an objective analysis of the accord showed it contained positive elements, he said. No formal vote was taken on the EC accord, but a spokesman for the Agriculture Ministry in Bonn said Kiechle had made it clear in discussions in Brussels that he did not accept it. Ireland and Luxembourg were also opposed. Reuter 
WORLD BANK ISSUES 232 MLN U.S. DLR FINANCE PACKAGE

The World Bank is issuing a multicurrency financing package totalling 232 mln U.S. Dlrs, coordinator DG Bank Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank said. The package includes a 250 mln mark five year straight eurobond with a 5-3/8 pct coupon priced at par, led by DG. The bond, which is a private placement, matures on March 17, 1992. It will be listed in Frankfurt beginning in May, with no precise date yet specified. Denominations are 5,000 and 50,000 marks. Details of fees were not immediately available. The package also includes a five year 100 mln guilder eurobond with a 5-3/4 pct coupon priced at par. The Dutch guilder issue will be led by Rabobank Nederland. The third bond in the package is a seven year, five billion yen bond with a 4.95 pct coupon priced at par, led by The Norinchukin Bank. The package also includes a 25 mln Swiss franc 10-year credit agreement, with interest at 4-7/8 pct, underwritten by Swiss Volksbank, DG said. REUTER 
DUTCH GROWTH LIKELY TO SLOW, JOBLESS RISE IN 1987

Leaks of a major Dutch official economic forecast due to be published on Monday indicate reduced economic growth and a renewed rise in unemployment this year, political and market sources say. Concern over an anticipated fall in Dutch competitiveness this year against a background of an average 2-1/2 pct wage increase, zero inflation and a firm guilder has triggered some calls for a change in monetary policy to help boost growth. But whatever the government's response, the central bank will stick to its policy of keeping the guilder firm, they say. The official forecasting agency Centraal Planbureau (CPB) publishes its 1987 outlook at the start of a week which will also see a key parliamentary debate on government finances and the economy. Merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson - in an estimate reflecting general sentiment - said last month that Dutch economic growth was now seen around one pct. Domestic consumer spending is not expected to offset the decline in export growth caused by slowing growth in West Germany, the main Dutch trading partner, and the lower dollar, Pierson said in its February economic outlook. The latest growth forecasts are well below a 1.5 to two pct growth figure seen by the CPB early last month and forecasts of 2.5 pct economic growth in 1987 made last September. The fall in unemployment is bottoming out and the government has already admitted it will not meet its goal of reducing unemployment by an annual 50,000 from 1986 to 1990. Some analysts and industry leaders have questioned central bank policy of pegging the guilder firmly to the mark and if necessary keeping interest rates up to support the guilder. Employers federation NCW chairman Fred Lempers criticised the guilder's revaluation in line with the West German mark in last January's European Monetary System (EMS) realignment and expressed concern over its effect on competitiveness. But the employers federation VNO noted the Dutch economy had become more competitive since 1980 and the fall of the dollar was affecting this gain more than the EMS realignment. Some analysts also question the central bank's decision not to copy the latest Bundesbank discount rate cut and instead lower money market rates and abolish a credit quota surcharge. Central bank president Wim Duisenberg has defended the move saying the bank had adjusted the rates with the most impact on the money market, noting "the (4.5 pct) discount rate is at the moment not the most important Dutch rate because it is already far below the market rates." Central bank officials say the heavy dependence on trade of the Dutch economy requires a stable exchange rate, and interest rate policies serve that goal. Analysts noted a large capital outflow from the Netherlands recently as foreign investments in Dutch stock are being sold to take profits. Loosening the tie between the guilder and the mark would reduce international confidence in the guilder and make it more dificult to attract foreign capital, they said, noting Dutch interest rates rose sharply when the guilder was not revalued completely in line with the mark in a 1983 EMS realignment. Many Dutch banks have reacted favourably to the decision not to copy the last German discount rate cut, but Pierson warned it could actually add to uncertainty over the guilder. Some analysts noted friction between the Finance Ministry and the central bank, with Finance Minister Onno Ruding having said before the Bundesbank discount rate cut he favoured lower Dutch rates but that the Germans should move first. One analyst said Ruding wanted to bring interest rates down to reduce the government debt burden. A Finance Ministry spokesman said lower interest rates were needed but denied any suggestion of conflicting views between the ministry and the central bank. "The cabinet's policy is steady, the guilder has to stay with the mark," he said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN FISHMEAL IMPORTS HIGHEST IN 15 YEARS

West German gross fishmeal imports rose 60,260 tonnes, or 14.6 pct, last year to 471,891 tonnes, the highest level since 1972, trade sources said. Re-exports fell by 6.6 pct, resulting in a surge in net imports from 175,901 to 251,708 tonnes, an increase of 43 pct. Total West German consumption was estimated at around a high 287,000 tonnes, largely reflecting attractive prices. The sources, however, could not give comparative figures for 1985. South American producer countries supplied 97 pct of West German requirements, with Chile shipping 229,176 tonnes (1985 - 182,959) and Peru 210,513 (147,014) tonnes. The two South American countries' share of the West German market rose to 93.2 pct from 80.2 pct because imports from Ecuador fell to 21,110 tonnes in 1986 from 51,722 in 1985. West Germany imported 56,823 tonnes of fishmeal in December, up from 46,236 tonnes in the same 1985 month, with re-exports at 22,262 tonnes after 25,062 a year earlier. Reuter 
ICO QUOTA TALKS FAILURE PARALYSE HAMBURG MARKET

The failure of International Coffee Organization talks on the reintroduction of quotas has paralysed business on the Hamburg green coffee market in the past week, trade sources said. There was only sporadic activity for spot material, which was mainly requirement buying, they said, adding that pre-registered coffees were no longer available. They said they expected Brazil and Colombia to open export registrations for May shipment next week. However, the president of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster, said yesterday he had not yet decided when its registrations would reopen. REUTER 
SOME SHIPPING RESTRICTIONS REMAIN ON RHINE

Limited shipping restrictions due to high water remain in force on parts of the West German stretch of the Rhine river between the Dutch border and the city of Mainz but most are expected to be lifted this weekend. water authority officials said The restrictions, caused by high water levels, include speed limits and directives to keep to the middle of the river to prevent damage to the river banks. The high water was expected to recede within two days to below levels at which the restrictions come into force. Traffic was halted briefly late Tuesday night, Wednesday and parts of Thursday on stretches of the Rhine between Bonn and Koblenz but the shipping bans were lifted, the officials said. Shipping is now permitted on all parts of the West German section of the Rhine, with restrictions in some areas. Reuter 
GERMAN SECURITIES PURCHASES SET RECORD IN JANUARY

Purchases of West German bonds in January reached a record 13 billion marks' worth as a result of investment from other European countries amid expectations of a European Monetary System realignment, the Bundesbank said. This produced a surplus in the securities item of the long-term capital account of 11.17 billion marks and was the primary contributor to a 10.15 billion surplus in the total capital account, turning round December's 6.48 billion deficit. In January last year, the capital account, combining long and short-term flows, showed a surplus of 2.27 billion marks, the Bundesbank said. The Bundesbank said foreign purchase of German shares in January was, by contrast to the massive bond investments, only about 200 mln marks worth, while overseas purchases of "Schuldschein" promissory notes fell by 500 mln from December. The long-term account in total showed a surplus of 11.17 billion marks, reversing the 2.60 billion deficit in December and up from a surplus of 9.37 billion in January, 1986. Among other items, direct domestic investment abroad posted an outflow of 2.86 billion marks after a deficit of 4.98 billion in December and a surplus of 1.13 billion in January last year. The Bundesbank confirmed earlier figures from the federal statistics office that the current account surplus in January fell to 4.86 billion marks from 8.47 billion last year. The trade surplus in the month was down to 7.20 billion from 11.57 billion in December. In the invisibles account, the surplus on services was 100 mln marks, turning round a deficit of 500 mln marks in December. The balance on payments transfers narrowed to a deficit of 2.40 billion marks from 2.70 billion. REUTER 
GERMAN CASH IN CIRCULATION UP AT FEBRUARY'S CLOSE

Cash in circulation in West Germany rose by 2.8 billion marks in the last week of February to 121.5 billion, a gain of 8.3 pct over the same month last year, the Bundesbank said. Cash in circulation is one of two components of the West German money supply which the German central bank is targeting to grow between three and six pct this year. Gross currency reserves in the week rose by 200 mln marks to 109.5 billion. Foreign liabilities fell 100 mln to 22.9 billion, giving a net currency reserves increase of 300 mln to 86.6 billion. Commercial bank minimum reserve holdings at the Bundesbank fell 300 mln marks to 51.9 billion marks at the end of February, averaging 51.2 billion over the month. The rediscount debt of the banking system fell 800 mln marks to 55.2 billion marks, the Bundesbank said. Banks made heavy use of the Lombard emergency funding facility to meet month-end payments and borrowed 3.1 billion marks, a rise of 2.9 billion over the week before. The net position of public authorities at the Bundesbank declined 6.7 billion marks in the last week of February. The federal government drew down 3.8 billion marks of its Bundesbank cash deposits, which had stood at 4.1 billion in the third week of February, and also borrowed a 1.8 billion in credit from the central bank. Federal states' deposits fell 1.5 billion marks to 1.3 billion and their cash credits dropped 400 mln to 300 mln. The Bundesbank balance sheet total rose around 5.44 billion to 222.22 billion marks. REUTER 
GERMAN 1988 TAX CUTS RAISED BY 5.2 BILLION MARKS

Senior officials in the West German coalition government said tax cuts planned for next year would be increased by 5.2 billion marks, in line with a pledge made by Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg at last month's international monetary conference in Paris. Gerold Tandler, General Secretary of the Christian Social Union Party, detailing the cuts at a news conference also attended by officials from the Christian Democratic Union and Free Democratic Party, said all of the additional 5.2 billion mark reduction would represent net tax relief. An increase in revenue from other sources was not planned. The reductions will be added on to a package of tax cuts already planned for 1988 amounting to some nine billion marks. Tandler said three billion marks of the extra tax relief would be accounted for by reducing the rate of marginal increase in income tax. An increase in personal tax allowances would save taxpayers 1.4 billion marks. Extra tax allowances for people whose children are being educated would cut 300 mln marks from the tax bill. A further 500 mln marks would be accounted for by increasing the level of special depreciations for small- and medium-sized companies. The extra fiscal measures planned for next year are part of a general reform of the tax system which will come into effect in 1990. Stoltenberg had said in Paris that part of this reform, which will cut taxes by a gross 44 billion marks, would be introduced next year, ahead of schedule. The West German government had come under pressure from the United States to stimulate its economy with tax cuts. But Stoltenberg said in a speech last night in Hamburg that, while the economy would continue to expand this year, the rate of growth was uncertain. The government said in January it was aiming for real growth in Gross National Product this year of 2.5 pct, but some economists have revised their predictions down to two or below. Stoltenberg said: "We remain on a course of expansion. Whether (this will be) under two pct, as some people believe, or around 2.5 pct as some others expect, or even closer to three pct, as the Kiel World Economic Institute forecast a few days ago, remains open at the moment." REUTER 
GERMAN GOVERNMENT NEEDS SEEN RAISING BOND YIELDS

Increased federal government borrowing needs and a growing unwillingness by foreign investors to buy mark assets could push yields in German public authority bonds higher this year, bond market sources say. "At the moment we have a sideways movement in the short-term rates. But how rates move in the long end will depend strongly on foreigners," one portfolio manager for a large securities investment house in Frankfurt said. The sources also said the government had already stepped up its borrowing programme in anticipation on increased needs. Friday's loan stock was the third this year already, the sources noted. It carried a 10-year maturity, a coupon of six pct and price of 100-1/4 to yield 5.97 pct at issue. This compared with the last issue which had a 5-3/4 pct coupon priced at 99-3/4 pct for a yield of 5.75 pct. But dealers said the terms were not enough to attract foreign investors, and the federal government would have to push yields higher in future if it wanted to borrow again soon. Sources noted federal government issues had also increased in size, with the introduction of a four billion mark volume only starting last May. One finance ministry economist said "It isn't more. It's just the size (of each bond) which has increased." He added conditions in the capital market currently remained fairly favourable for raising new debt. Until recently, federal issues sold very strongly abroad, with up to 90 pct of some being placed with foreign investors. With the recent stabilisation of the U.S. Dollar, however, foreign investors have begun to back away from the market, as hopes of further currency gains in marks diminish. Sources said the government has may have already stepped up its borrowing, having raised more than 18 billion marks. The government made net borrowings of 23 billion marks in 1986. But Bundesbank statistics showed that net borrowing through bonds was 26.6 billion. The sources said this indicated a move by the government out of other types of debt to gain access to foreign funds through the more acceptable loan stock form. Although new credit needs were partly inflated by a large amount of issues maturing recently, other factors, including the government's tax reduction program, would also reduce income next year. "The problem here will be the tax reform," the portfolio manager said. He added that the government's cut in its top income tax rate to 53 pct from 56 pct in 1988 would make it difficult for the government to reduce borrowings. The sources said the government would fall far short of covering all of its 40 billion marks in lost revenue from the tax reform by making expenditure cuts and would be forced to fall back on debt markets in one form or the other. The portfolio manager noted that besides the three federal government loan stocks so far this year, it has also fallen back twice to raise a total 6.43 billion marks through the issue of fixed-rate medium-term "Kassenobligation" notes. A finance ministry economist said the government did not expect to have any trouble keeping to its plan to borrow only a net 22.3 billion marks this year. Though many sources agreed, they added that the trend would probably not continue next year as the further tax cuts come into effect. "I would expect the efforts for a further tax reform would mean government borrowing will increase," the manager said. Bond prices last week were slightly firmer on balance, with the Bundesbank's public authority bond yield calculation falling to 5.64 pct on Friday from 5.66 a week earlier. But sources said foreign demand for the new federal government loan stock was slack, as sentiment grows that the dollar may now rise against the mark. "The demand wasn't so good," a dealer for a German bank in London said. The dollar's recent slight appreciation against the mark even meant that foreign investors have sold mark bonds recently, some dealers said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN FARMERS MARCH AGAINST EC POLICIES

About 8,000 West German farmers marched through the northern city of Kiel today in a protest against European Community (EC) agricultural policies, organisers said. The demonstrators burned straw effigies of the two West German members of the EC's 17-man Commission, Karl-Heinz Narjes and Alois Pfeiffer, and demanded their removal from office. Speakers at a rally also called on the government to take a tougher stance in dealings with the Commission. The protest was the latest of several by West German farmers against Commission proposals to cut EC farm spending.The farmers say the proposals will put many of them out of business. Reuter 
LITTLE MOVEMENT ON HAMBURG FISHMEAL MARKET

The Hamburg fishmeal market saw little movement in the past week with demand slack as in other protein feed sectors, trade sources said. Prices edged up on firmer origin offering levels and the stronger dollar. Sellers quoted 64 pct fishmeal at between 640 and 650 marks per tonne free on truck for spot and between 630 and 640 marks for April/Dec. International demand was also slow but some inquiries from Far Eastern buyers were noted in South American producer countries, the sources said. Chile is said to have good catches in northern and southern fishing grounds, with offers unchanged at 330 dlrs per tonne c and f North German ports. Peru's catches differ regionally and stocks are low. Sellers quoted a nominal offering level of 320 dlrs per tonne c and f north German ports. Ecuador was not in the market and catches are said to be poor. Denmark has seasonally low catches, with 72 pct meal offered at 315 crowns per 100 kilos cif North European ports for April/Oct deliveries. Iceland has good catches and sellers quoted a price of 5.45 dlrs per percentage point protein cif North European ports. Norway was not in the market. Reuter 
BERTELSMANN TO MARKET APPLE SOFTWARE IN GERMANY

Mixed media group Bertelsmann AG <BETG.F> said its subsidiary Publicsoft GmbH has agreed to market Apple Computer Inc's <AAPL.O> software products to the specialized West German computer retail trade. The cooperation agreement between Publicsoft and Apple's West German subsidiary Apple Computer GmbH did not involve either company taking any kind of financial stake in the other, a Bertelsmann spokesman said. He declined to say how much the agreement was worth. Reuter 
GERMAN BANKS SAY COMPANY HOLDINGS FALLING

West German private banks, in the latest twist in a long-running battle over the size of their holdings in industry, have said the holdings were falling and rejected calls for tighter limits on these participations. Under West Germany's banking system, banks can hold shares in non-banking companies giving them seats on company supervisory boards, and administer the holdings of small shareholders in safe custody accounts. Holdings of over 25 pct, which give a veto right in the supervisory board of a company, must be disclosed. "The claim that the concentration of power has intensified, as made by the Monopolies Commission, therefore turns out not to be accurate ... There is no reason to impose further legal restrictions on the acquisition of holdings by banks," it said. The Association's letter is the latest skirmish in a long running battle between banks on the one hand and a range of government offices and political lobbies on the left and right. The number of holdings above 10 pct in public companies with a nominal share capital of over one mln marks held by these 10 banks fell to 86 in 1986 from 129 in 1976, it said. Of these 43 reductions, 41 represented holdings of over 25 pct in 1976. The banks' holdings of nominal share capital fell to 1.70 billion marks in 1986, or 1.34 billion adjusted for capital changes in the past 10 years from 1.80 billion in 1976. Over this period total West German nominal share capital rose to 235 billion marks from 136 billion, so that the holding of banks in German companies fell to 0.7 pct from 1.3 pct. The nominal share capital of listed non-bank companies rose to an estimated 49 billion marks in 1986 from 35.58 billion in 1976, with banks' holdings falling to 1.57 billion marks or 3.2 pct from 1.61 billion marks or 4.5 pct, the Association said. It argued that bank representatives were in a minority on the supervisory boards of the 100 biggest German companies, and in most cases could be blocked by non-banking representatives. The survey covered Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F>, Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>, Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F>, Bayerische Vereinsbank AG <BVMG.F> and Bayerische Hypotheken- und Wechsel-Bank AG <BHWG.F>. It also covered Berliner Handels- und Frankfurter Bank <BHFG.F>, <Berliner Bank AG>, <Industriekreditbank AG>, Vereins- und Westbank AG <VHBG.F> and <Baden-Wuerttembergische Bank AG>. Deutsche holds by far the largest number of such stakes, including 28.5 pct of Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F>. Criticism of the bank holdings has not only come from the Monopolies Commission and left-wing parties. An advisory commission, in a report late last year to the Economics Ministry, urged implementation of the five pct proposed by the Monopolies Commission to promote competition and avoid interest conflicts. The Economics Ministry has been controlled by the liberal Free Democrat Party, junior partner in the centre-right coalition government and increasingly in favour of deregulation. Furthermore the West German Supreme Court recently supported an action by a private Deutsche shareholder demanding more transparency in the bank's balance sheet. The shareholder argued that the bank's ability to declare industrial stakes of more than 25 pct as only temporary holdings evaded the statutory requirement to report them in full. If a bank declares stakes temporary it does not have to disclose them but can include them under securities holdings. The case is due to be heard again by the Frankfurt higher regional court. REUTER 
WORLD BANK TO BRING BORROWING FORWARD THIS YEAR

The World Bank intends to bring borrowing forward into the first half of 1987 because it expects global interest rates to rise by year end, World Bank vice president and treasurer Eugene Rotberg said. He told a news conference that rates in the U.S., Japan, West Germany and Switzerland were near their lows. "The weight of opinion is (that in a year from now) there is a higher probability there will be one pct higher than one pct lower interest rates," he said. The World Bank had not issued floating rate notes so far this year because of the expectation of higher interest rates. The policy of the World Bank was to maintain liquidity at a level that gave the bank flexibility to decide when, where and how much to borrow, Rotberg said. Cash in hand was now about 50 pct of the next three years' anticipated net requirement and comprised 25 pct of outstanding debt and 66 pct of its debt maturing within five years. Although the World Bank had pioneered the swap market, it did not intend to launch new financial instruments just for the sake of innovation, Rotberg said. Of a total of 74.5 billion dlrs debt outstanding, only some eight billion had been swapped into another currency. Many recent innovations were either unfair to investors or unfair to borrowers. Until the World Bank was confident that this was not the case, it would not adopt new instruments. The World Bank would raise 90 pct of the funds needed over the next year with methods used before, Rotberg said. However, for some 10 pct of new requirements the bank would try out new instruments such as bonds with warrants. The World Bank had publicly offered 60 bonds in Germany since the first issue was launched in 1959, he said. 
GERMAN EMPLOYERS MAKE SURPRISE OFFER TO ENGINEERS

Engineering industry employers in North Rhine-Westphalia state said they made an unprecedented offer on pay and working hours. The offer, which came amid warning strikes by some 33,000 workers, was the first time since World War Two that employers have proposed cutting working hours and is seen as averting a repeat of the nationwide strike of 1984 which brought the auto industry to a standstill for seven weeks, union sources said. The employers propose a half-hour cut in the 38.5 hour working week from July 1, 1988 and a pay rise of 2.7 pct from April 1 and a further 1.5 pct from July 1, 1988. The engineering union IG Metall, Europe's largest union, wants a five pct wage rise and a 35-hour week at full pay. It called today's warning strikes, mostly involving work stoppages of up to one hour, after more than 50 rounds of talks since December failed. The employers' offer was seen breaking the deadlock in negotiations, even though the union said the half-hour cut is not enough, union sources said. The offer applies to workers in North Rhine-Westphalia and it was unclear if further offers would be presented in talks between unions and employers of other West German states. REUTER 
PREUSSAG AG <PRSG.F> YEAR 1986

Domestic group turnover 4.48 billion marks vs 4.29 billion. Turnover comprised - Coal a rounded 1.14 billion vs 1.22 billion Metal 851.0 mln vs 1.14 billion Transport 435.3 mln vs 534.4 mln Oil and chemicals 479.7 mln vs 831.7 mln Plant construction 625.7 mln vs 568.8 mln Miscellaneous 3.3 mln vs 2.2 mln Turnover from majority stake in C. Deilmann AG, consolidated for first time, 951.8 mln marks vs nil Domestic group fixed asset investment 392.6 mln marks vs 291.2 mln. Investment total includes 76.3 mln marks in investment at C. Deilmann AG. REUTER 
KRUPP SAYS 2,000 STEEL JOBS TO GO THIS YEAR

Krupp Stahl AG <KRPB.F> said it will cut about 2,000 of a total 18,000 jobs by the end of 1987 and is considering reducing the work force by a further 3,000 in subsequent years. The company, which is 70.4 pct owned by Fried Krupp GmbH, said the job losses were part of immediate and longer-term restructuring plans. The statement denied published reports that total job losses would amount to 9,000 employees. Krupp has said previously that the work force cuts are necessary because of weaker conditions on the steel market. REUTER 
SOME GERMAN ENGINEERS AGAIN HOLD WARNING STRIKES

The engineers union IG Metall said 35,700 workers at 152 West German engineering companies held brief warning strikes today in support of the union's demands for higher wages and shorter working hours without loss of pay. It said most of the stoppages were in northern Germany, where employers and union representatives met for talks on a collective wage agreement for 300,000 engineering workers in the Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony areas. IG Metall members began a series of nationwide warning strikes this week as part of the union's bid to raise wages by five pct and cut the working week to 35 hours from 38.5 hours. Warning strikes held so far this week have generally lasted about one hour each. Employers in northern German offered IG Metall a 2.7 pct rise in wages from April 1 and a further 1.5 pct from July next year. It also offered to cut the working week by half an hour from July 1988. IG Metall rejected the offer, and further talks for northern Germany were later scheduled for March 23. On Monday employers in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia offered workers there a similar package of wage rises and shorter working hours. REUTER 
FORD LAUNCHES MARK EUROBOND WITH CURRENCY WARRANTS

Ford Motor Credit Co <F> is raising 200 mln marks through a five-year eurobond with currency warrants attached, carrying a coupon of 5-3/4 pct and priced at 116-3/4, lead manager Deutsche Bank AG said. The issue will be sold in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks and listed in Frankfurt. Each 1,000 mark bond carries two warrants which can be converted into 500 dlrs each at an exchange rate of 1.86 marks. The exercise period runs from April 8, 1987 until March 6, 1989. Fees total two pct, with 1-1/4 pct for selling and 3/8 pct each for management and underwriting. Each 10,000 mark bond carries two warrants which can be converted into 5,000 dlrs each on the same terms as the warrants for the 1,000 mark bonds, Deutsche said. The bond pays interest annually on March 25 and matures on the same date in 1992. Payment date is also March 25. A management group is currently being formed. REUTER 
GERMAN SUGAR OFFERS PUT AT ABOUT 100,000 TONNES

The West German intervention board said about 100,000 tonnes of sugar have been offered into intervention so far. A spokesman, speaking from Frankfurt, told Reuters offers have increased recently but contracts have not yet been concluded. A European Commission spokesman in Brussels earlier confirmed that one mln tonnes of sugar had been offered to intervention boards in various member states. The intervention board spokesman in Frankfurt said, "One million tonnes is an awful lot and the Community's coffers are almost empty. This could turn into a serious political problem." West German trade sources said they believed the one mln tonne offer by the EC sugar industry into intervention would have a neutral market impact overall. Reuter 
 German net currency reserves rise 400 mln marks to 87.0 billion - Bundesbank



DUTCH SUGAR TRADE DENY INVOLVEMENT IN OFFER

Dutch sugar traders deny involvement in a plan to offer more than 850,000 tonnes of sugar to intervention in protest at EC export policy and prices, traders told Reuters. Although some 2,500 tonnes of sugar have been offered to intervention in the Netherlands, Dutch producers and traders said this sugar was actually Belgian and was being offered by the Belgian industry. "We sympathise with the actions of the French, West German and Belgian traders and producers, but we are not party to it," a spokesman said. EC Commission sources said yesterday French traders planned to sell 775,000 tonnes into intervention stocks, West German traders 75,000 tonnes and Dutch traders 2,500. Dutch trade sources gave the same figure for France, but estimated up to 110,000 tonnes offered by German traders and producers. The Dutch spokesman added, "The weekly export tender policy and prices are squeezing the European sugar industry, and this is the only way in which they can really register their protest. "These are desperate actions, but we believe that most of this offered sugar will be withdrawn within the three-week breathing space allowed." REUTER 
GERMAN IBM REPORTS NINE PCT DROP IN TURNOVER IN 1986

IBM Deutschland GmbH <IBM.F>, the West German subsidiary of International Business Machines Corp <IBM.N>, said its turnover fell nine pct to 12.0 billion marks in 1986 as a result of currency factors, weaker demand in the second half and stiff price competition. IBM Deutschland planned to strengthen its software and service activities in future to ensure growth remained at desired levels in the medium term, managing board chairman Hans-Olaf Henkel said. He gave no 1986 profit figures. Domestic turnover fell 12.7 pct to 7.2 billion marks while exports declined 3.2 pct to 4.8 billion. Most of IBM Deutschland's exports go to IBM companies in other countries. Henkel said volume sales had been positive overall, especially in the large computer and personal computer sectors. However, at the same time, fierce international competition, worldwide overcapacity and currency movements had reduced large computer prices for IBM Deutschland by some 23 pct. In January Henkel said the annual growth rate of the German computer market may in the long term be less than 10 pct, well below the 20 pct expansion originally forecast. REUTER 
GERMAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY BUNDESBANK HOLDINGS FALL

The net position of federal states worsened in the first March week, cutting public authority net holdings at the Bundesbank by 500 mln marks, the central bank said. States' cash deposits at the central bank fell to 800 mln and they also drew down 1.2 billion marks in book credit, 900 mln marks more than in the prior week. By contrast, however, the federal government was able to reduce its credit drawdown at the central bank by 900 mln marks to 900 mln. Despite the stronger states' net needs in the week, their cash position and other market dependent influences just about balanced the outflow of liquidity from the money market through an increase in cash in circulation, the Bundesbank said. Cash in circulation rose by 1.4 billion marks in the week to 122.9 billion. Liquidity also came in through the maturing of short-term treasury bills bought from the Bundesbank in the prior week. Gross currency reserves rose in the week by 400 mln marks to 109.9 billion. Foreign liabilities of the Bundesbank were largely unchanged at 22.8 billion marks, giving a rise in net currency reserves of 400 mln to 87.0 billion, it said. The Bundesbank said its balance sheet total fell by 3.77 billion in the week to 218.45 billion. REUTER 
DRESDNER BANK UNIT SAYS NOT WORRIED ON BRAZIL DEBT

Deutsch-Suedamerikanische Bank AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>, said it was not worried about Brazil stopping its interest payments. Board member Herbert Mittendorf told a news conference that Brazil's example was unlikely to be followed by other Latin American countries. He pointed out that the region's debt rose by only 2.8 pct last year to a total 396 billion dlrs. The countries' efforts to further economic growth and to consolidate budgets were "not unsuccessful." But the slump in oil prices and the decline in commodity prices hampered these efforts, he said. Latin American countries' exports fell last year by about 16 pct to 80 billion dlrs, with imports declining slightly to around 65 billion dlrs, Mittendorf said. The region's 1986 trade surplus was halved to an estimated 15 billion dlrs, he said. The cut in exchange earnings of oil exporting countries was only partly offset by the advantages gained by the region's oil importing states, he noted. The region's principal debtors are Brazil and Mexico, each owing about 100 billion dlrs at the end of last year, followed by Argentina with around 49 billion dlrs, Venezuela with 33 billion and Chile with 20 billion dlrs debt. Deutsch-Suedamerikanische Bank welcomed Mexico joining the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in mid 1986, which it saw as an effort to integrate the country to a larger extent into the world economy. However, realistic exchange rates were needed if the debtor countries were to compete in the world market, Mittendorf said. In this respect an easing of protectionist barriers was imperative, he said. The conversion of debt into equity was regarded as an important additional step towards debt consolidation. West German exports to Latin America declined by 4.1 pct in 1986 to 11 billion marks. Shipments to Mexico fell 19 pct to 1.9 billion marks and to Colombia by 15 pct to 600 mln marks, Mittendorf said. Exports to Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Central America were also lower last year than in 1985, while shipments to Brazil rose 11.5 pct to around two billion marks. Exports to Argentina went up by over three pct to 1.5 billion marks and those to Paraguay surged by 42 pct to 106 mln marks, he said. Brazil was West Germany's main Latin American supplier, but shipments fell to 4.4 billion marks from 6.4 billion in 1985. REUTER 
DEUTSCHE BABCOCK, KWU SHARE BILLION MARK CONTRACT

Deutsche Babcock AG <DBCG.F> said it and Siemens AG <SIEG.F> subsidiary Kraftwerk Union AG <KAWG.F>, KWU, have won an order from the city of Munich for an electricity and heating-generating plant which company sources said was worth slightly more than one billion marks. A Babcock statement said its share of the order alone was worth 800 mln marks, the largest domestic contract it has ever received. It gave no figure for KWU's share but company sources said the total order was worth slightly more than one billion marks. Reuter 
ROCKEFELLER SAYS BRAZIL SOLUTION WILL BE FOUND

David Rockefeller, chairman of the international advisory committee of Chase Manhattan Bank NA, said an accommodation would be found between Brazil and its commercial bank creditors to solve the problem of the nation's recent interest payment halt. "I think one will find that the banking community, the Brazilian government and the international banking authorities will be talking for the next several weeks and I am very hopeful that we would find an accommodation." Rockefeller told bankers at a luncheon. Brazil announced on February 20 that it was suspending interest repayments on about 68 billion dlrs of private sector debt owed to commercial banks. Rockefeller said the recent tour by Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro of major industrial nations was a sign that Brazil wanted to be cooperative. But it was notable that Funaro did not meet with the creditors immediately affected, the commercial bankers, he added. Brazil's moratorium on commercial debt becomes critical by end-May, when payments would be 90 days overdue, obliging U.S. Regulators to downgrade Brazilian debt, financial sources said. This would require banks in turn to cease accruing interest and set aside expensive loan loss reserves. Rockefeller reminded bankers of the depth of concern over Latin American debt at the Toronto World Bank/International Monetary Fund meeting in 1982, and said an accord would be reached in the current circumstances just as it had been then. "(Brazilian authorities) have no more interest in seeing their credit sources cut off then we have in seeing their obligations stop," he added. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKS SAY UNCERTAINTY ABOUT ECONOMY GROWING

Uncertainty is growing about the prospects for the economy as orders for industry fall and companies scale back investment plans, the German Savings Banks and Giro Association said. Exporters expect foreign demand to remain weak, while industry is less optimistic than it was, the association said in a report. However, last month's agreement among the six leading western industrialized countries to keep currencies around present levels was expected to be a stabilizing influence for exporters, it added. The banking association said the possibility of using monetary policy to stimulate the economy should not be overestimated. Another small drop in already low interest rates could not be expected to cause any significant rise in purchases of consumer or capital goods, it said. The Bundesbank's half-point cuts in the discount and Lombard rates in January have largely exhausted the scope for any further monetary moves, the association added. On Tuesday the Federal Statistics Office said gross national product stagnated in real, seasonally and calendar adjusted terms in the fourth quarter of 1986 compared with the third quarter. The Economics Ministry, commenting on the figures, said GNP in the 1987 first quarter was also expected to be relatively weak. Bank economists have forecast the economy will either stagnate or contract slightly in the first quarter. Official first-quarter figures are due in early June. REUTER 
DATA TAPES ERASED IN VW FRAUD, CHAIRMAN SAYS

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> supervisory board chairman Karl Gustaf Ratjen said entire data tapes had been erased and complete programs altered in forged transactions amounting to around 480 mln marks. "In this case a degree of criminal energy has been brought into play which until now was unimaginable in a German company," he said in a radio interview. He could not completely rule out the possibility that losses would exceed 500 mln marks, but said there were currently no signs that they would be higher than the 480 mln announced on Tuesday. Some 70 to 80 mln marks had probably been lost through disregard for internal instructions, he added, but did not elaborate. However, the remainder had definitely been lost through criminal action and forgery in 1984. Ratjen said the affair would lead to consequences up to the board room. He would recommend that those under suspicion of being involved in criminal acts would have to go immediately. Those who had not exercised checking functions sufficiently would also have to go. But Volkwagen management board chairman Carl Hahn was not involved in the affair, he said. A Volkswagen spokesman said the company had made sufficient provision in previous years to cover the losses from the fraud. Its 1986 profit would, therefore, match 1985 world group net profits of 595.6 mln marks. Volkwagen disclosed the existence of the fraud on Tuesday, saying it was possible that documents about currency hedging had been falsified and that those responsible may have come from outside Volkswagen and may have been assisted by company staff. Criminal complaints on suspicion of fraud, breach of trust and forgery of documents had been filed, it added. The company spokesman said the supervisory board would meet on April 9 to examine the precise extent of the losses and to approve the year-end results. Ratjen said it was important for Volkwagen to maintain a degree of "internal integrity" on account of its 200,000 employees, particularly as shop floor elections were coming up. "On the one hand one fights for every single mark of income. And here is a case where hundreds of millions are being just thrown away," he added. Reuter 
GERMAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German wholesale prices fell 0.4 pct in February from January to stand 6.9 pct lower than in February 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. In January wholesale prices rose 0.8 pct from December to stand 8.6 pct below their level in January 1986. Wholesale price declines were led by starch products, down 13 pct, light heating oil 11 pct lower, heavy heating oil 10 pct lower and green coffee down 6.9 pct. Among higher wholesale prices were those for fresh vegetables, up 17 pct, fresh fruit up 12 pct and eggs up 8.9 pct, the statistics office said in a statement. REUTER 
VW DISMISSES HEAD OF ITS FOREIGN EXCHANGE DEPT

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> said it has dismissed the head of its foreign exchange department and suspended several other staff members following the recent emergence of a possible currency fraud at the company. A VW statement said foreign exchange department chief Burkhard Junger had been dismissed with immediate effect. It said it has also suspended Guenther Borchert, head of the financial transfer department, and Siegfried Mueller, head of the central cash and currency clearing department. Four other members of the foreign exchange staff were also suspended. VW said the possibly fraudulent foreign currency transactions, which could cost the company 480 mln marks, fell directly within the area of responsibility of Borchert and Mueller. VW said Adalbert Sedlmair, formerly finance director at VW's former office equipment subsidiary Triumph-Adler AG, would temporarily take over responsibility of the financial transfer department during Borchert's suspension from duties. Meanwhile, the state prosecutor's office in Brunswick, which is looking into the currency transactions, said the Federal Criminal Office in Wiesbaden had also joined the investigation and would be responsible for measures such as possible police searches. A spokeswoman for the office said prosecutors in Frankfurt were looking into the possibility of taking over the VW case but added a final decision would be taken next week. The short VW statement said, "Burkhard Junger, 39, who had already been suspended from his duties in January, has been dismissed with immediate effect." Company sources said Borchert and Mueller were not thought to have been directly involved with the currency transactions but they may have been lax in their supervision. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN RAILWAY ISSUES DOMESTIC STOCK

The West German federal railway is raising 900 mln marks through a 10-year loan stock on the domestic market with a coupon of 6-1/4 pct and price of par, a Bundesbank spokesman said in response to enquiries. Some 750 mln marks will be offered for immediate sale with 75 mln held back for market regulation and the remaining 75 mln placed with the railways own bank. The stock will be offered for sale between March 17 and 19 and will be listed on all German stock exchanges from March 20 to 24. The stock pays annual interest on April 1. Terms of the bond conformed with those expected earlier today, dealers said. The bond rose in the first hour of grey market trading to less 7/8, less 5/8, after being quoted at less 1-1/8, less 7/8 in first business. Dealers said demand rose owing to the bond's relatively small size. In contrast, the last railway issue in January totalled 1.1 billion marks, of which 900 mln was distributed for immediate sale. REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SEES GOOD SOVIET TRADE PROSPECTS

Soviet-West German trade is expected to develop favourably due to Moscow's increasing openness to East-West economic relations, Dresdner Bank AG's Moscow representative Michael Stein said. He told a bank presentation the Soviet Union was last year hit by the fall in world oil prices, which cut export revenue from oil-related products and natural gas, and its overseas buying power was also adversely affected by the lower dollar. Dresdner Bank economist Alfred Apholte said the Soviet Union's large currency and gold reserves had softened the impact of the dollar weakening and oil price drop. REUTER 
WEST GERMANY RESCHEDULES SIERRA LEONE DEBT

West Germany and Sierra Leone signed an agreement to reschedule 26 mln marks of principal and interest payments on loans, the West German Foreign Ministry said. A statement said the agreement related to interest and principle and obligations from previous reschedulings due between July 1, 1986 and November 13, 1987 as well as arrears from the period up to June 30, 1986. The statement said the payments were rescheduled for 1992 to 1996 under the accord, which followed a multilateral rescheduling pact agreed by "Paris Club" creditor nations on November 19, 1986. REUTER 
GERMAN SECURITIES MAY BE COUNTED IN LENDING RATIOS

West German banking authorities are considering requiring German banks to bring securities holdings into lending ratio calculations used to regulate credit risk, banking sources said. The present interpretation of the credit law limits banks' maximum lending to 18 times eligible capital -- reserves plus equity capital -- but sets no restraints on securities holdings. Under new provisions, weightings would be attached to securities similar to those used for lending. Weightings would range from a zero rating for no-risk assets to 100 pct of total asset value for what authorities consider the highest risk. Low-risk securities carrying a zero rating would include public authority bonds for the federal government, states and municipalities, the sources said. A 20 pct rating would be assigned to issues of domestic banks. Secured bonds of mortgage, shipping and public authority banks would be an exception to this, via such securities as mortgage and municipal bonds. Securities issued by foreign banks would attract a weighting of 50 pct, while authorities are considering requiring banks to include 100 pct of the value of debt assets of foreign issuers, including sovereign borrowers. The sources said the revision is still being discussed, and required approval by the federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin, the Bundesbank, and West Germany's four banking associations. The move is a response to the increasing securitisation of debt markets, they added. Reuter 
VW AFFAIR COULD DELAY SHARE SALE - STOLTENBERG

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg was quoted as saying a possible currency fraud at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> may affect government plans to sell its 20 pct stake in the carmaker this year. "It is all very unpleasant for us because we have decided to privatise the VW shares this year. We will now have to ask ourselves the question whether we can keep to this date," he told Bild am Sonntag newspaper in an interview. Bild am Sonntag released the text ahead of publication Stoltenberg did not elaborate on the share sale. The West German government owns 20 pct of VW ordinary share capital and has said previously it plans to sell it either in 1987 or 1988. Stoltenberg told Bild am Sonntag the possible fraud showed there had "clearly been reprehensible criminal conduct below the level of the responsible management board." "I do not want to prejudge results but the immediate and serious question which poses itself is whether certain management board members have kept their areas of business under appropriate control," he was quoted as saying. VW said last week it had discovered possibly fraudulent currency transactions which could cost the company 480 mln marks and had asked state prosecutors to investigate. It said on Friday it had dismissed the head of its foreign exchange department, Burkhard Junger. VW also said it suspended six staff, including financial transfer department chief Guenther Borchert and the head of the central cash and currency clearing department, Siegfried Mueller. REUTER 
VW CURRENCY LOSSES SEEN INVOLVING SEVERAL TRADERS

The extraordinary foreign exchange loss of 480 mln marks reported last week by Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> (VW) is so large that outside currency traders were probably involved in the case, currency sources said. They were commenting after weekend newspaper reports that prosecutors were transferring the focus of their enquiries to Frankfurt, West Germany's main foreign exchange centre. Volkswagen announced last Tuesday that it had called in prosecutors to investigate a possible fraud involving currency hedging. The newspaper Welt am Sonntag said the investigation by state prosecutors was now considering whether the alleged VW currency manipulators had outside banking accomplices. The transactions were only possible, "because the culprits possessed genuine bank forms, with the help of which they were able to deceive controllers for years," the newspaper said. But currency sources said there were so many loopholes in every bank's currency dealing system that controls could easily be avoided. Rolf Selowsky, financial member of the management board, has resigned in the wake of the affair, a VW spokesman said. Selowksy's resignation followed a VW announcement on Friday that foreign exchange chief Burkhard Junger had been dismissed and Guenther Borchert, head of the financial transfer department, had been suspended along with Siegfried Mueller, head of the central cash and currency clearing. Four other members of the foreign exchange staff were also suspended, but no charges have been laid. VW Supervisory board chairman Karl Gustaf Ratjen said entire data tapes had been erased and programs altered in forged transactions. Der Spiegel magazine said VW financial controllers discovered the uncovered positions on February 18 when VW expected a currency forward contract with the Hungarian National Bank to mature, but Hungarian bank officials said they knew nothing of the transaction and the supposed contracts were forgeries. The Budapest-based bank refused to buy the dollars and has not commented on the affair. The Hungarian National Bank is, along with the Soviet Bank of Foreign Trade, one of two major East Bloc currency traders and most major banks based in Germany deal with it regularly. It would not be possible, the sources said, for any bank to renege on a genuine forward contract since this would immediately become known and effectively prevent the bank from operating further in the spot or forward currency markets. Longer-maturity forward contracts, even contracts of up to 10 years, were now becoming more common, they said but the longer and larger the contract, the more likely it was that it would be transacted with a domestic institution. Being one of Germany's most diversified multi-nationals, VW has exposure in a large number of currencies and dealt in these with most banks in Frankfurt and also abroad, sometimes through currency brokers, although it has the reputation of doing relatively little hedging, currency sources said. "They (VW) are always in the market, more or less trading as a bank," one senior dealer said. Some newspaper reports said the losses were incurred because of VW's failure to take out currency hedging contracts beginning at the end of 1984, when the dollar was rising. But the currency sources said market speculation was that dollar income of around one billion dlrs was involved and that the bulk of the transactions occurred last year since which time around 50 pfennigs per dollar was lost when the dollar fall continued. Longer-maturity currency contracts for more than 100 or 200 mln dlrs each were rare. Taking several in this size out with a single bank would be easily spotted by financial controllers. One senior dealer for a German bank said, "There's no way they can have hoped to get away with it. It's too big." The sources added that the involvement of the Federal Criminal Office (BKA) in Wiesbaden could indicate that the investigation would lead outside Germany. BKA has the mandate to handle criminal cases that may involve foreign police forces or supranational services such as Interpol. However the branch also handles cases that transcend federal state borders within Germany. REUTER 
GERMAN RETAIL TURNOVER RISES ONE PCT IN JANUARY

West German retail turnover rose a real one pct in January compared with the same month a year earlier, according to provisional data from the Federal Statistics Office. There were 26 shopping days in January this year, the same as in January 1986, a Statistics Office statement said. A Statistics Office official added retail turnover had risen by 7.6 pct in December compared with the year-ago month, a slight upward revision from the 7.5 pct increase provisionally posted. REUTER 
 German February central bank money grows annual 7.5 pct (January, same) - prov. Bundesbank data



GERMAN FEBRUARY CENTRAL BANK MONEY GROWTH STEADY

West German central bank money stock was growing at an annualized 7.5 pct in February, unchanged from the 7.5 pct reported in January, provisional data from the Bundesbank showed. The figure was thus outside the three to six pct range set by the Bundesbank for 1987. In absolute terms, the measure rose to 223.2 billion marks in February from 221.8 billion in the prior month. The data showed that the stock grew at an annualized 8.6 pct over the six months to February, slower than the 9.4 pct rise in the same period to January. Of the two components comprising central bank money stock, cash in circulation rose to 111.7 billion marks in February from 110.9 billion in January, the Bundesbank data showed. This gave an annualized 8.3 pct rise over the six months to February, down from a 10.2 pct increase over the six months to January. Minimum reserve requirements on domestic liabilities grew to 111.5 billion marks in February from 110.9 billion in January. This yielded an annualized 8.8 pct rise over the six month to February, up slightly from an 8.6 pct increase over the same period to January. REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987

Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said. It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' efforts to achieve further firming of the price led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S., The world's biggest crude oil producer. Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed the central banks' limits and real growth of their gross national products, it said. Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said. Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen. These factors and South Africa's unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underline the firmer sentiment, it said. However, Australia's output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987

Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said. It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' efforts to achieve further firming of the price has led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S. Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed central bank limits and real growth of their gross national products, it added. Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said. Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen, the bank said. These factors and South Africa's unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underscore the firmer sentiment, it said. However, Australia's output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. Reuter 
NO FEDERATION BANK SEEN INVOLVED IN VW AFFAIR

Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth, President of the West German Federation of Banks, said that as far as he knew no member bank of the Federation was involved in activities which led to currency losses of some 480 mln marks for Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, VW. VW has said fraudulent currency manipulation possibly led to the losses. The Federation of Banks includes all the major West German commercial banks. Schroeder-Hohenwarth was speaking at a news conference after a Federation meeting. REUTER 
NO FEDERATION BANK SEEN INVOLVED IN VW AFFAIR

Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth, President of the West German Federation of Banks, said that as far as he knew no member bank of the Federation was involved in activities which led to currency losses of some 480 mln marks for Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, VW. VW has said fraudulent currency manipulation possibly led to the losses. The Federation of Banks includes all the major West German commercial banks. Schroeder-Hohenwarth was speaking at a news conference after a Federation meeting. Reuter 
GERMAN BOURSE TURNOVER TAX DECISION ANGERS BANKS

The failure of the West German government to abolish a tax on bourse turnover when other taxes came under discussion during recent coalition negotiations was a "bitter disappointment," the president of the West German Federation of Banks, Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth, said. Schroeder-Hohenwarth told a news conference that, contrary to numerous assurances from the government, the abolition of the turnover tax had not been touched upon. "This must not be allowed to be the last word. Otherwise a major chance for West Germany as a financial centre will have been missed," he said. After the January 25 election the government decided upon a reform of the West German tax system, involving gross tax cuts of 44 billion marks, which would be implemented in 1990. In line with a pledge made by Bonn at the February monetary conference in Paris, the government said earlier this month part of the planned tax cuts would be effective next year. Government sources have said the fact the latest coalition discussions did not touch upon the bourse turnover tax does not necessarily rule out the possibility that it could be abolished later in the current four-year legislative period. The bourse turnover tax, levied on securities trades where an end-investor is involved, generated government revenue of some 750 mln marks in 1986, according to the Finance Ministry. Schroeder-Hohenwarth said there were no fiscal reasons for maintaining the tax because companies would benefit from its abolition. Their earnings would increase and the government would receive more in profits tax. Wolfgang Roeller, chief executive of Dresdner Bank AG, said the bourse tax decision did not fit into the general background of liberalisation of the German capital market, and represented a weakening of West Germany as a financial centre. REUTER 
BANKS SEE GERMAN GROWTH OF AT LEAST TWO PCT

External risks for the economy have increased, but growth of two to 2.5 pct this year is still possible, according to President of the West German Federation of Banks, Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth. Schroeder-Hohenwarth told a news conference the further fall of the dollar since the start of this year and the revaluation of the mark against European currencies meant West German exporters were facing a "rough wind." However, domestic demand was continuing to rise and private consumption in particular would support the economy, he said. He saw good prospects for consumer industries. Schroeder-Hohenwarth said economic policy now had to concentrate on strengthening this domestic growth. In this context, he welcomed a decision by the government to increase the scope of tax cuts due in 1988. He added, a planned reform of the fiscal system scheduled for 1990, which was worked out by coalition partners this month, was an "important step in the right direction." The government plans to cut corporation tax to 50 pct from 56 pct. However, Schroeder-Hohenwarth said the decision to cut the maximum rate of income tax to only 53 pct from 56 pct was "rather half-hearted." REUTER 
VW FOREIGN EXCHANGE INQUIRIES FOCUS ON WOLFSBURG

West German state prosecutors have focussed their inquiries in the suspected foreign exchange fraud reported by Volkswagen <VOWG.F> on Wolfsburg, the company's headquarters, the state prosecutor's office said here. Chief state prosecutor Carl Hermann Retemeyer told Reuters his office would focus its attention on Wolfsburg, and not Frankfurt as newspaper reports suggested over the weekend. "We asked Frankfurt prosecutors to assist us in our investigations but their findings led us to believe that we have to concentrate on Wolfsburg," Retemeyer said. The newspaper Welt am Sonntag said yesterday the state prosecutors investigation was now focusing on possible outside banking accomplices. The company's reported loss of 480 mln marks in currency transactions aimed at hedging against fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar has produced a shake-up among senior staff. VW announced over the weekend that Rolf Selowsky, financial member of the management board, had resigned. Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth, president of the West German Federation of Banks, said today that no member bank was involved in activities which led to the currency loss. Reuter 
WEST GERMAN PRESIDENT HOLDS TALKS WITH ALFONSIN

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker met Argentine President Raul Alfonsin for talks on the first day of the German leader's four-day visit. Local officials placed great importance on the meeting because Weizsaecker is considered a key backer here for more flexible repyament terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr foreign debt. "I suppose (the debt) will be unavoidable" in talks, said Juan Carlos Pugliese, speaker of the lower house of the Argentine Parliament and one of Alfonsin's top political allies, before the meeting. He said that "Germany in particular and most European countries" have supported more liberal repyament terms for Argentina's debt, Latin America's third largest. An Argentine mission is now in the United States concluding negotiations on debt repyayment with 11 creditor banks. Reuter 
CREDITORS/DEBTORS SHARE RESPONSIBILITY-WEIZSAECKER

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker said both debtor and creditor nations share responsibility for the Third World's foreign debt crisis. Weizsaecker, in a speech on the first day of an official visit to Argentina, said: "Debtor and creditor countries have created this situation jointly. They also share responsibility for finding lasting solutions." Local officials have payed great importance to Weizsaecker's visit because they consider him a key backer of more flexible repayment terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr foreign debt, Latin America's third largest. Weizsaecker, speaking at a reception held for him by President Raul Alfonsin at Buenos Aires' City Council hall, also said no one could overlook the enormity of the obstacle posed by the foreign debt to countries like Argentina. "Democracy in Latin America must not be endangered because of misery or new injustices," he said. Argentine officials said they might halt debt payments last month if creditor banks did not agree to a new 2.15 billion dlr loan. An Argentine mission is now in the U.S. For talks with 11 banks, seeking to win an easing of repayment terms and secure the loan. Weizsaecker said Argentina has had difficulties with the European Community over trade barriers and subsidies for grain exports. "We are making efforts to eliminate them with the help of balanced interest from all parties," he said. Argentina has said the barriers and subsidies cut unfairly into the country's traditional markets for its grain exports. Weizsaecker arrived for a four-day visit, opening a Latin American tour which includes Bolivia and Guatemala. He held brief talks on Sunday with Brazilian President Jose Sarney during a stopover in Brasilia. REUTER 
CREDITORS/DEBTORS SHARE RESPONSIBILITY-WEIZSAECKER

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker said both debtor and creditor nations share responsibility for the Third World's foreign debt crisis. Weizsaecker, in a speech on the first day of an official visit to Argentina, said: "Debtor and creditor countries have created this situation jointly. They also share responsibility for finding lasting solutions." Local officials have payed great importance to Weizsaecker's visit because they consider him a key backer of more flexible repayment terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr foreign debt, Latin America's third largest. Weizsaecker, speaking at a reception held for him by President Raul Alfonsin at Buenos Aires' City Council hall, also said no one could overlook the enormity of the obstacle posed by the foreign debt to countries like Argentina. "Democracy in Latin America must not be endangered because of misery or new injustices," he said. Argentine officials said they might halt debt payments last month if creditor banks did not agree to a new 2.15 billion dlr loan. An Argentine mission is now in the U.S. For talks with 11 banks, seeking to win an easing of repayment terms and secure the loan. Weizsaecker said Argentina has had difficulties with the European Community over trade barriers and subsidies for grain exports. "We are making efforts to eliminate them with the help of balanced interest from all parties," he said. Argentina has said the barriers and subsidies cut unfairly into the country's traditional markets for its grain exports. Weizsaecker arrived for a four-day visit, opening a Latin American tour which includes Bolivia and Guatemala. He held brief talks on Sunday with Brazilian President Jose Sarney during a stopover in Brasilia. REUTER 
EUROPEAN SUPERCHIP PRODUCTION COULD START IN 1988

Production of a four-megabit superchip, developed jointly by Siemens AG <SIEG.F> and NV Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken <PGLO.AS>, could start by late 1988 or early 1989, West German Technology Minister Heinz Riesenhuber told a news conference. "We have caught up (with) our competitors," a Technology Ministry spokeswoman said. "Now it's a question of who will be first to produce it, and we are in with a good chance." Companies in the United States and Japan say they already have a prototype but have not yet reached the production stage. Siemens and Philips, together with the West German and Dutch governments, have invested a total of 1.4 billion marks in researching and developing the chip. Representatives of the two companies said the sophisticated technology could be used to produce cheaper medical diagnosis instruments and to regulate car fuel consumption and emissions. REUTER 
LUFTHANSA SAYS FARE POLICY IN LINE WITH EC RULES

The West German airline, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, believes the way it decides fares is in line with European Community (EC) guidelines despite an official probe, a company spokesman said today. The Federal Cartel Office in West Berlin is investigating whether agreements reached by European airlines over fares are a breach of EC regulations on competition. Hubertus Schoen, the Cartel Office's spokesman, said the investigation had been running for some weeks. A spokesman for Lufthansa told Reuters: "Lufthansa presumes that the way we decide fares corresponds with EC regulations." Airlines did not traditionally have to comply with a clause in the Community's treaty forbidding companies in member states from reaching accords likely to hinder free competition. However, Schoen said that last year the European Court of Justice had ruled that this clause should also apply to air traffic. The Cartel Office"s probe came in the wake of this. The Office had not yet officially contacted Lufthansa, but Schoen said the airline would be asked for information about the way fares were decided. It would then be decided if the practice was a breach of article 85 of the EC treaty. Reuter 
EIB ISSUES 400 MLN MARK EUROBOND

The European Investment Bank, EIB, is raising 400 mln marks through a 10-year eurobond carrying a coupon of 6-1/8 pct and priced at 100-1/4, market sources said. Deutsche Bank AG will be lead managing the issue, the sources added. No further details were immediately available. Deutsche later confirmed the details and added the issue would be sold in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. Interest will be paid annually on April 7 and the bond matures on the same day in 1997. Payment date is also April 7. The borrower has the option of redeeming the bonds from 1994 at 100-3/4, then declining by 1/4 point annually until maturity. Fees total 1-3/4 pct, with 1-1/8 pct for selling, 3/8 pct for underwriting and 1/4 pct for management, Deutsche said. The bond will be listed in West Berlin, Duesseldorf, Frankfurt, Hamburg and Munich. REUTER 
 EC COMMISSION TO VISIT BONN AT KOHL'S INVITATION

West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl has invited the European Community's 17-man Commission for talks in Bonn next month in a bid to repair strained relations, EC diplomats said. The Commissioners, led by President Jacques Delors, will pay a two-day visit to Bonn on April 1-2 when they were due for a meeting with the principal West German cabinet members. The meeting, the first of its kind between the Commission and the government of a member state, was originally meant to focus on problems posed by West Germany's federal constitution. But they said the meeting was now likely to be dominated by Commission plans to restructure the EC's exhausted finances and its costly farm policy, which have provoked strong opposition from Bonn. Kohl has written two letters to Delors, complaining that the plans would hit West German farmers hard. His farm minister Ignaze Kiechle has publicly criticised the two German members of the Commission for failing to oppose them. This caused protest from Brussels where the Commission tries to guard the independence of its members from the governments that nominate them. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN FEED OUTPUT SEEN DECLINING

West German feedstuffs production is expected to decline further after it dropped to 16.5 mln tonnes in 1986 from 16.7 mln the previous year, the West German Feed Stuff Industry Association (MFI) said. Association president Ulrich Wagner told a news conference West Germany's rate of self sufficiency in the feedstuffs sector is expected to fall below 70 pct this year from around 75 pct in 1986. He attributed the expected decline to introduction of milk quotas in 1984, aimed at curbing EC milk production, and to cheaper imports from abroad. "Our industry's output is not even close to stagnation," Wagner said. "In the long term we expect annual production to decline steadily." The only sector which saw a slight increase last year, by 0.6 pct, was feed for poultry which rose to 3.25 mln tonnes from 3.23 mln, he said. Wagner predicted that the sales volume in feed for dairy cattle will decline even more this year because of the further cut in milk output from April. Reuter 
EC OILS TAX NO LONGER MAJOR ISSUE - ASSOCIATION

The proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats is no longer a major issue on the agenda and the EC Commission merely used it as a threat, the West German Feed Stuffs Industry Association (MFI) said. Association chairman Ulrich Wagner told a news conference the West German feed industry believes the EC does not seriously contemplate the introduction of such a tax because it would end in another transatlantic trade war. "We have just avoided a trade conflict with the U.S. And the Commission used the tax threat to calm national farm lobbies." American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague that U.S. Soybean producers were confident the tax would be rejected. Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, will also visit Bonn on Thursday and Friday. There are indications the Bonn government will also reject the proposed tax, Wagner said. Reuter 
BAYER CONFIRMS IT RECEIVED AIDS DAMAGE CLAIMS

West German chemical group Bayer AG <BAYG.F> said it had received claims for damages from haemophilics who allege they were infected with AIDS through a blood plasma produced by a Bayer subsidiary. Bayer's shares fell 13 marks to close at 292 in Frankfurt today. Dealers said a newspaper report about possible huge claims for damages triggered off the share selling in Bayer, other pharmaceuticals and insurance companies. Bayer said in a statement it was insured against claims and had received two. Bayer did not rule out that some infections may have been passed on through the plasma in the past. But the company added that the method of production had been changed and according to current knowledge there was now no danger of contracting AIDS through the blood plasma. The plasma is used by haemophilics to aid the clotting of blood. The Hamburg-based news magazine "Der Spiegel" reported in its latest edition that the West German pharmaceutical industry could face billions of marks worth of claims for damages from infected haemophilics and their relatives. Reuter 
GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES FALL 0.3 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German producer prices fell 0.3 pct in February from January and were 4.2 pct below prices in February last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In January, producer prices rose 0.2 pct from December, the first monthly rise since October 1985, but they were down 4.4 pct from a year earlier. The Statistics Office said light heating oil producer prices fell 22 pct in February from January while heavy heating oil prices fell 24 pct. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN NEW CAR REGISTRATIONS RISE IN FEBRUARY

West German new car registrations in February increased by 31 pct over January's figure but trailed the February 1986 total by 2.9 pct, the Federal Motor Office said. February new car registrations totalled 190,175 compared with the year ago figure of 195,852 and last month's 145,122. New car registrations in January had fallen 41.6 pct against December, reflecting the end of tax incentives aimed at encouraging West Germans to buy cars with catalytic converters. The office said total February new vehicle registrations, including those for trucks and buses, fell to 205,376 from 210,084 in February 1986 but were well above January's 157,357. REUTER 
DEUTSCHE BABCOCK RIGHTS ISSUE PRICED AT 165 MARKS

Deutsche Babcock AG <DBCG.G> said an issue price of 165 marks had been set on a two-for-five rights issue of shares which will raise nominal capital by 100 mln marks to 350 mln marks. The subscription period for the offer runs from March 26 to April eight, it added. Babcock shares opened at 222.2 marks in Frankfurt after a close of 226 yesterday. Babcock, which has set an unchanged three mark a share dividend on 1985/86 business, announced last week that Iran was selling its 25.2 pct holding in the company. These shares will be placed with institutional investors. The rights issue will bring Deutsche Babcock 330 mln marks, which share market analysts said was likely be used partly to finance expansion, especially in environment technology. However, one analyst who follows the stock for a major Frankfurt bank said the capital increase would also be used to bring capital ratios back into order after the company suffered heavy losses in the early 1980s. This analyst said Babcock had used reserves to cover these losses, which were due to problems linked with three major contracts in the Middle East. The parent company made a net loss in the year to end-September 1982 of 389 mln marks. Deutsche Babcock has not yet presented details of its results in the 1985/86 period, but it has said profits rose from the group net of 32.1 mln marks in 1984/85. The share market analysts saw no particular problems in the pricing of the new Babcock shares but said the timing was unfortunate. The government is planning to sell its 25.55 pct stake in VEBA AG <VEBG.F> this month, in a transaction worth a likely 2.5 billion marks. The Babcock rights issue also coincides with a large capital increase by the Aachener und Muenchener insurance group. The heavy volume of new stock coming on to the market has generally put pressure on West German stocks which have also suffered because of export problems caused by the high mark. Analysts have linked the pending capital increase with Iran's decision to sell its holding in Babcock, held since 1975. When the Iranian decision was announced last week, the market took the news calmly. Analysts said today the combination of the Iranian sale and the rights issue would not have a negative effect on the Babcock share because the direct placement of the Iranian holding with institutional investors both in Germany and abroad would shield the price from falls. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TOMORROW

The Bundesbank will not hold a press conference after its regular fortnightly council meeting tomorrow, a spokeswoman said in answer to enquiries. Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl will chair the meeting. The next meeting is scheduled for April 2. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN BANKS SLOWLY CUTTING KEY SAVINGS RATES

West German commercial banks are cautiously cutting key savings and lending rates, banking sources said. The cuts follow nearly two months after the Bundesbank reduced leading interest rates, far longer than the usual interim period. A Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> spokesman said it is cutting leading savings rate for private customers on a regional basis by 0.5 percentage points to two pct. Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F> and Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> have initiated similar moves. Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft AG <BKFG.F> cut rates 0.5 pct generally. The delay was partly due to commercial banks' desire to gauge customer reaction to a similar move by regional savings banks. A fall in customer savings because of lower rates could reduce cheap refinancing available to banks, forcing them to draw down relatively expensive funds from other sources, one economist at the German Banking Association said. But the volume of savings funds may not be substantially undercut by lower savings rates because many customers are parking funds in savings accounts in the hope they can reinvest them at higher yields in the future, he said. He said this may conflict with Bundesbank aims to move more funds from relatively short-term deposits to longer-dated securities to reduce strong growth in its central bank money supply aggregate. The aggregate showed annualized growth of a provisional 7.5 pct in February against the fourth quarter of last year, unchanged from January. The growth rate was outside the expanded target range of three to six pct. Few banks have so far reduced lending rates to private customers, though lending rates for corporate customers are beginning to decline. REUTER 
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST

The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year. The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn. The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year. The DIW said that even if the economy recovers in the remaining three quarters, it was unlikely that demand and production would rise strongly enough to bring GNP growth up to 1.5 pct. Other institutes and economists have recently revised their forecasts for German 1987 growth to around two pct. In a report DIW disputed arguments by other economists that the economy was showing mixed development, with domestic demand healthy but foreign demand weak. DIW said the crucial split was between weak demand for capital goods, and strong demand for buildings and consumer goods, not between foreign and domestic demand. It noted that domestic demand for capital goods had been hit in recent months by the weakness of exports, which had caused West German firms to scale back investment plans. Service industries, unlike manufacturing industry, were continuing to do well because they relied on consumer demand, it said. In a separate report the HWWA economic research institute in Hamburg said West Germany's real trade surplus would fall markedly this year. However, the nominal trade surplus would show little change from 1986's record 112.2 billion marks because of a further improvement in the terms of trade on average in 1987 compared with 1986, it said. REUTER 
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST

The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year. The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn. The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year. Reuter 
MONEY BROKER SOUGHT IN VOLKSWAGEN CURRENCY SCANDAL

The state prosecutor investigating a suspected currency swindle which may have lost Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> millions of dollars said he wanted to question a Frankfurt-based money broker. Prosecutor Carl Hermann Retemeyer told Reuters the broker, Joachim Schmidt, may be able to shed light on the affair in which VW says it might have been defrauded of up to 480 mln marks. No charges have been laid in what may turn out to be West Germany's largest known currency fraud. The incident has led to political calls for tighter controls on the free-wheeling money and currency markets. Retemeyer gave no further details of the investigation. His office understood that Schmidt was on a business trip. A spokesman for the brokerage firm told Reuters that Schmidt had been expected back on Monday from the United States but had not returned yet, and his current whereabouts were not known. Brokerage firms fulfill a middle-man function in currency and money markets, matching buy and sell orders between banks and other large customers who may prefer to remain anonymous. The financial newsletter, Platow, said today the state prosecutor, called in when suspicion of fraud first came to light on February 18, had to date been able to find no evidence of personal enrichment by VW employees. The newsletter reported on November 3 last year that VW had incurred losses in the "three-figure millions" because it had not protected itself against a fall in the value of the dollar. This was denied at the time by VW executive board chairman Carl Hahn. Financial director Rolf Selowsky resigned last week after news of the currency fraud, an executive has been fired and several others are suspended. A Frankfurt business lawyer, Egon Geis, said yesterday that on February 10 he had offered VW information about the currency fraud and offered to provide a written confession by someone involved. He said VW declined his offer, but the company says the tip was taken to top management and that Geis later met Hahn but failed to produce the document. REUTER 
ROYAL INSURANCE ISSUES 300 MLN MARK EUROBOND

A Royal Insurance Plc unit is raising 300 mln marks via a five-year bullet eurobond with a 5-1/2 pct coupon, priced at par, sole lead manager Commerzbank AG said. The bond, for Royal Insurance Finance NV, is guaranteed by the parent. Investors will pay for the bond on April 9, and the bond pays annual interest on the same day. It matures on the same day in 1992. Fees total two pct, with 1-1/4 points for selling, and 3/8 each for management and underwriting. Listing is in Frankfurt. The bond will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. REUTER 
DAIMLER DISMISSES CURRENCY SPECULATION

A spokesman for Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> said that rumours the car-maker was suffering from currency difficulties were "absolute rubbish." Like all major exporters Daimler undertakes currency hedging but has no problems here, according to the spokesman, contacted by telephone in Stuttgart. Daimler shares fell 17 marks yesterday in Frankfurt to a year's low of 896 on the rumours and was quoted in pre-bourse trading today around 890. A week ago Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> said it may have lost 480 mln marks on fraudulent currency hedging deals. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG CONSIDERS RAISING SOME INDIRECT TAXES

Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said he was looking for ways to help finance a planned tax reform without increasing value-added tax but could not rule out raising some indirect taxes, for example, on tobacco. Stoltenberg also told parliament that closing tax loopholes would contribute towards the 19 billion marks the government is seeking to finance part of its 44 billion mark tax reform package for the 1990s. He confirmed that a temporary and limited increase in the borrowing requirement was also being considered. Chancellor Helmut Kohl yesterday said a temporary rise in borrowing was acceptable but stressed his government would exercise strict discipline in spending. New net borrowing was 23.0 billion marks in 1986 compared with 37.2 billion in 1982. REUTER 
WESTLB ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR EUROBOND

A Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (WestLB) unit is raising 50 mln Australian dlrs through a five-year bullet eurobond with a 14-3/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/2, co-lead manager WestLB said. The bond, for WestLB Finance N.V., Is guaranteed by the parent. Investors will pay for the bond on April 15, and the bond pays annual interest on the same day. It matures on that day in 1992. Fees total two pct, with 1-3/8 points for selling, and 5/8 for management and underwriting combined. There is a 1/8 pct praecipuum. Listing is in Luxembourg. Co-lead is Hambros Bank Ltd. Denomination is 1,000 dlrs. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN CAR OUTPUT RISES IN FEBRUARY

West German car and van production rose to 389,900 in February from 380,900 in February 1986, the German Automobile Industry Association VDA said in a statement. Production of trucks of up to six tonnes fell sharply to 11,500 from 14,600, owing to a cut in production of small delivery vans of up to two tonnes. Total vehicle output rose to 410,000 from 404,600. Car and van exports eased to 222,000 in February from 225,000 one year earlier, and exports of trucks of up to six tonnes dropped to 6,200 from 9.900. Total vehicle exports fell to 233,200 from 240,300. Car and van output in January and February eased to 758,700 from 766,500 in the first two months of 1986. Production of trucks up to six tonnes fell to 26,300 from 30,700, and total vehicle production fell to 802,300 from 814,900. Car and van exports in January and February fell to 424,700 from 443,300 a year earlier and exports of trucks up to six tonnes fell to 15,400 from 20,200. Total vehicle exports fell to 449,200 from 473,500. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED

The Bundesbank left credit policies unchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and the Lombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER 
GERMAN INVESTORS SLOW TO ACCEPT BOND INNOVATIONS

The liberalization of West German capital markets in May 1985 led to a flood of financial innovations but the lack of a secondary market for these has diminished their acceptance, Deutsche Girozentrale - Deutsche Kommunalbank management board member Wiegand Hennicke said. While innovations may be intellectualy stimulating, they lack transparency, he told an investors' forum in West Berlin. "Properly functioning markets require standardized products. This (condition) has not been met by some of the innovations," Hennicke said. The volume of zero coupon bonds and floating rate notes, the most widely used financial innovations in Germany, stands at four billion and 16 billion marks, respectively, a tiny proportion of the 1,000 billion marks of bonds in circulation. Even for zero-coupon bonds and floating rate notes, a secondary market had not developed, Hennicke said. One important reason for this was the bourse turnover tax, which was reducing the rate of return to the investors. West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said this week he believed the tax could still be removed, even if its abolition was not decided during recent coalition discussions. Karl-Herbert Schneider-Gaedicke, deputy management board chairman of DG Bank Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, said German domestic and institutional investors had also shown reservations about investing in participation shares. One of the reasons was the widely varying terms and conditions of participation shares in West Germany. "The investor has to scrutinize (participation shares) carefully, before making an investment decision," Schneider-Gaedicke said. He added the attractiveness of participation shares could be increased by limiting the combination possibilities of terms and conditions and increasing safeguards for investors. He also urged publicizing the comparative advantage of participation shares over ordinary shares for foreigners. Foreigners do not receive the corporation tax bonus granted to domestic investors for share dividends. Karl Thomas, head of the Bundesbank's credit department, said the domestic investor had missed earnings opportunities over the last four years by failing to invest in German bonds. Domestic investors did not believe interest rates would decline and stay at low levels for such a long time, because expectations were determined by sharp interest rate fluctuations at the start of the decade. The Bundesbank has a natural interest in seeing domestic savings channelled into bonds and shares, Thomas said. A shift of savings into long-term assets would dampen monetary expansion and foster a stable rise of the money supply, he said. REUTER 
GERMAN COMPANY INSOLVENCIES DOWN IN JANUARY

West German corporate insolvencies totalled 1,099 in January, 0.7 pct less than in the same month of 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. The number of insolvencies fell by 3.6 pct in the building industry and by four pct in manufacturing industry but rose by 1.8 pct in the services sector. Overall insolvencies, including those of private individuals, totalled 1,522 in January, 1.4 pct down on the same month of last year. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKS SEE LOW INTEREST RATES CONTINUING

The Association of German Cooperative Banks said in a financial survey that domestic interest rates would continue to remain low for the time being. It said the Bundesbank could hold them down despite strong foreign influence and it saw no interest-straining factors in the economy that could affect the long-term capital market. The inflation rate of one pct also gave no occasion for higher nominal interest rates. But a probable rise in inflation late this year could give very slight grounds for a rise in nominal rates at year's end and next year, it said. The association said generally low interest rates, prospects of lower taxes, a stable dollar rate and expected strong domestic demand led it to believe that the investment climate would remain friendly and the economy would continue its slow but very sure growth. The Bundesbank had managed successfully to keep interest rates down on the short-term money market although its policies had exerted little effect on the long-term capital market, which was so important for investment financing and thus for the course of the economy, it said. In view of the limits to the possibilities monetary policy had in influencing the longer-term capital market, the association saw little sense in wanting to boost the economy through a short-term and expansionist monetary policy. On the other hand it also saw no reason for sticking dogmatically to the money supply target for the whole of 1987. The association said time would show to what extent speculative foreign money and short-term invested domestic money would distort money supply developments. The Bundesbank could hold down money market rates with the highly effective instrument of sale and repurchase transactions, it said. Reuter 
WEIZSAECKER CALLS FOR EASIER ARGENTINA DEBT TERMS

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker called on creditor banks to ease pressure on Argentina's foreign debt repayment terms. "We cannot remain indifferent to the pressure of creditor banks, since there is correlation between political stability and the economic situation," Weizsaecker told reporters. Argentina said last month it would suspend debt payments if creditor banks did not loosen repayment terms and grant a new 2.15 billion dlr loan. Argentina's debt is Latin America's third largest at 51 billion dlrs. Weizsaecker, on a four-day official visit to Argentina, said: "Argentina's problems require joint action from creditor and debtors countries," and not prepared recipes from creditor banks. A group of ecologists staged a demonstration to protest Argentina's plans to build a fourth nuclear power plant and a German company's role in the project as a contractor. Earlier, Weizsaecker said that the potential of Patagonia, the barren tableland covering a third of Argentina, could assure the economic future of the country. REUTER 
SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN ISSUES 400 MLN MARK BOND

The West German federal state of Schleswig-Holstein is issuing a 400 mln mark domestic bond, carrying a coupon of six pct and priced at 100.40, lead manager Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein - Girozentrale said. The eight-year offer yields 5.94 pct to retail investors at issue and will go on sale on March 25. Some 300 mln will be offered for immediate sale, and 100 mln will be retained for market regulation. The bond matures on April 20, 1995. Listing will be on all eight West German stock exchanges. REUTER 
GERMAN M3 RISES 2.6 BILLION MARKS IN FEBRUARY

West German M3 money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 2.6 billion marks in February to 1,035.1 billion, the Bundesbank said. The rise compares with a revised 14.8 billion mark increase in January and a 2.2 billion rise in February 1986. REUTER 
NO BRAZIL SOLUTION WITHOUT IMF, GERMAN BANKER SAYS

A solution to Brazil's debt problems is unthinkable without the involvement of the International Monetary Fund, Juergen Sarrazin, management board member of Dresdner Bank AG responsible for Latin America said. Sarrazin told the business daily Handelsblatt that Brazil's interest payments moratorium had cost it the goodwill of many banks. "Now there will certainly be no solutions without the IMF," he said. "Alternatives which could be imagined before, such as bringing the IMF in with us in a loose form, are over," he said. Sarrazin, who through Dresdner represents German banks in several rescheduling coordinating committees, noted that Brazil was still prepared to negotiate. But he said work in the coordinating committees had already run into difficulties before Brazil's interest moratorium. Justified calls by debtors for more flexibility from the banks were blocked because U.S. Regulations made solutions such as capitalising of interest virtually impossible, he said. Although many European banks were opposed to the use of interest capitalisation, "this was an alternative which has to be brought in," Sarrazin said. REUTER 
EC AND COMECON ENDS TALKS WITH PROGRESS

The European Community (EC) and Soviet-led Comecon ended talks here, having made progress on setting up formal trade relations, but no breakthrough because of Comecon's refusal to recognise West Berlin as part of the EC, delegates said. Negotiators were trying to reach agreement on the draft of a joint declaration setting up official relations after 30 years of mutual non-recognition. John Maslen, head of the EC delegation, told Reuters as he emerged from the final session: "We made some progress, but we have called for another meeting." Officials, who asked not to be named, said the Comecon team had refused to accept a clause in the draft declaration which would recognise West Berlin as part of the 12-nation EC. Under the 1957 Treaty of Rome all contracts and agreements signed by the Community must contain this territorial clause stipulating West Berlin is an integral part of the EC. An EC negotiator taking part in the three-day talks said: "We wanted the territorial clause in, but Comecon said no." A joint statement issued after the talks said progress was made towards clarifying positions, but another meeting would be necessary to complete the work. Any decision in principle to set up relations would require approval by the Community's Council of Ministers and by the executive committee of Comecon. Zdzislaw Kuroski, deputy director of Comecon, who heads the East bloc delegation, told Reuters ahead of today's session: "We have narrowed our differences on a range of questions, but not on all questions." Asked whether Comecon would accept EC insistence that any joint declaration stipulate West Berlin as part of the Community, he replied: "This question is not contained in the draft which our side presented." West German diplomats said they would insist on including the clause on West Berlin in any EC-Comecon agreement. The talks followed an earlier round between the two trading blocs here last September and the first-ever direct talks between the EC and the Soviet Union on establishing diplomatic relations in January. The EC trades with individual Comecon member states despite non-recognition of Comecon. Last year, the EC had a five billion dlr trade deficit with East European states, about half the deficit of the previous year, due to a drop in the price of Soviet oil imported by the EC. REUTER 
GERMAN MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH SLOWS IN FEBRUARY

West Germany's money supply growth slowed in February after January's sharp rise but the trend is still definitely upward, the Bundesbank said in a statement. Growth in the traditionally broad M3 aggregate was only moderate in February. While cash in circulation, deposits with statutory withdrawal notice and sight deposits grew sharply, short-term time deposits fell after expanding unusually strongly in January. In the six months to February, M3, which excludes holdings of German non-banks abroad, grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 8.5 pct after 9.8 in the six months to January. Compared with February 1986, M3 rose 7-1/2 pct. In the six months to February, M2, which excludes time deposits with statutory withdrawal notice, rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 8.8 pct and M1, which consists of cash and sight deposits, rose seven pct. International transactions of non-banks again led to a significant inflow of funds, the Bundesbank said. Net claims of commercial banks and the Bundesbank against foreigners, refecting these foreign payments, increased by 9.1 billion marks in February, little changed from January's rise. But in contrast to January, the dampening effect of the inflow on domestic credit demand outweighed the expansionary effect on money growth, the Bundesbank said. Outstanding bank credits to companies and private individuals remained virtually unchanged in February. A sharp drop in short-term company credits, which reflected the foreign funds inflow, was balanced by a moderate rise in long-term credits and a sharp rise in credits for securities. At the end of February total bank credits to the private sector were 4-1/2 pct above the February 1986 level. The effect of public authority cash movements on the money supply was slightly expansive, the Bundesbank said. Although banks acquired large amounts of public authority paper, public authorities drew down book credits at commercial banks and the Bundesbank. Capital formation strengthened in February and slowed money supply growth to a larger extent than in January. A total of 7.7 billion marks in long-term funds was placed with banks after 6.6 billion the previous month. REUTER 
BANKS HAD EXCESS POSITIONS WITH VW - NEWSLETTER

A financial newsletter which reported last November that car maker Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> lost large sums in currency transactions alleged that unnamed banks had circumvented banking regulations with help from VW's foreign exchange department. VW had no immediate comment and there was nothing in the report by the newsletter, the Platow Brief, to link its new allegations with a suspected currency swindle at VW which is now being investigated by a prosecutor. VW said this month that it had had to make provision for possible losses up to 480 mln marks in the possible currency fraud. A spokesman for the Federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin said the office was aware that the newsletter had made the new allegations and would follow this with interest. Platow Brief said around 16 mainly foreign banks based in West Germany had "parked" excess open positions in currency trading with VW's foreign exchange department. Under West German banking law, banks may not end a trading day with open positions totalling more than 30 pct of their capital. During the day banks buy and sell currencies, usually aiming to match up all deals by the end and balance their books. Some traders who take a view on how currencies will move may prefer to leave certain positions open, a speculative situation that the German regulations are designed to limit. According to Platow Brief, some traders apparently were getting round the regulation by getting VW to buy or sell currencies and hold them temporarily so that their books were squared. Up to 100 mln dlrs was sometimes involved. Non-bank corporations are not covered by the restrictions, imposed after a bank crash in 1974 to protect bank depositors. Breaches of the Banking Law in this way can be punished by a fine for the dealers involved, and in extreme cases by removal of the managers, if their active involvement is proved. But the Federal Banking Supervisory Office said it first had to be established how far, if at all, regulations were breached. The suspected VW currency swindle meanwhile involved operations to protect the company against fluctuations in the value of the dollar, VW spoksmen have said. Some operations to hedge against changes in currency values were not completed, meaning VW stood to lose money. A senior executive has been fired and several other people suspended, while a prosecutor is looking into the matter. REUTER 
EC AGREES TO REDUCE DIESEL EXHAUST EMISSIONS

The European Community (EC) agreed on new rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and buses in an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vast stretches of the region's forests. Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreed member states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next few years the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the main source of acid rain endangering forests and lakes. The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, with tougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 and for all new vehicles from October 1990. The EC's executive Commission says the emission level of nitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a year from three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if all heavy vehicles met the new standards. There are an estimated nine mln trucks and buses in use in the EC, according to Commission figures. The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to move towards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonn requested permission to do so to encourage the use of low-pollution cars, diplomats said. Reuter 
EC AGREES REDUCTION OF DIESEL EXHAUST EMISSIONS

The European Community (EC) agreed tough new rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and buses in an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vast stretches of the region's forests. Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreed member states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next few years the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the main source of acid rain endangering forests and lakes. The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, with tougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 and for all new vehicles from October 1990. The EC's executive Commission says the emission level of nitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a year from three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if all heavy vehicles applied to the new standards. There are an estimated nine mln lorries and buses in use in the EC, according to Commission figures. The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to move towards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonn requested permission to do so to encourage the use of low-pollution cars, diplomats said. West Germany will still need ministers' final approval for such a plan. Diplomats said this was expected when EC environment ministers meet next on May 21. But the ministers added that the go-ahead for West Germany did not mean there would automatically follow a Community-wide ban on the sale of regular leaded petrol. Bonn intends to keep leaded premium petrol pumps, diplomats said. They added that, of the 97 mln cars in the EC, only 20 mln now ran on regular leaded petrol and these would risk no damage if they switched over to premium leaded petrol. Under EC law, ministers have to give member states special permission if they wish to be exempt from Community competition laws. This would be the case if West Germany were to implement a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol. Reuter 
GERMAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING TWO PCT IN 1987

Bundesbank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger said that although West German economic growth was not expected to be satisfactory in the first 1987 quarter, two pct growth was still attainable for the whole of the year. A further rise in the value of the mark would worsen export prospects and have a negative effect on investments, he told the Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in an interview. But if such an appreciation did not materialize, the economy would expand. The federal government has predicted a growth rate of 2-1/2 pct or more in its annual economic report published in January, but some economists have said the forecast was too optimistic. Schlesinger said private consumption was likely to rise strongly. Government expenditure and construction were also expected to increase. But there was uncertainty about the prospects for exports and investment. The Bundesbank had viewed with concern the money supply overshoot in 1986, but the sharp rise was unlikely to have an effect on inflation in the forseeable future. However, there were potential dangers in the long run. Schlesinger said there was hope that in 1987 the West German money supply would grow within the three to six pct target zone set in December. Schlesinger said the dampening effect on inflation of the drop in import prices could continue to a lesser degree for some time. Prices in West Germany were likely to rise between one and two pct this year. He said 1987 would be the fifth successive growth year for the West German economy. Although there was a possibility of a downturn at some stage in the future, there were no signs this would happen in 1988. The main risks for the West German economy stemmed from its close ties with the rest of the world, Schlesinger added. REUTER 
FRANCE, BONN REACH ACCORD ON HELICOPTER DESIGN

France and West Germany have reached broad agreement on design specifications for a joint combat helicopter for the 1990s, the French Defence Ministry said. A ministry spokesman said French Defence Minister Andre Giraud and his West German counterpart Manfred Woerner had "agreed in principle" on a common concept for the helicopter during talks in Bonn on Friday. A joint commission will now be formed to work with firms involved in project and present a final report by July, he added. The project, first drafted in 1984, calls for the French company <Aerospatiale> and <Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm> of Munich to develop and build 400 helicopters for the French and West German armed forces. Its development, seen as a test of Europe's ability to collaborate on arms projects, has been dogged by different views on what type of helicopter to build and how to equip it. REUTER 
FOREIGN SHARE OF GERMAN CAR MARKET FALLS

Foreign manufacturers' share of the West German new car market fell to 30.8 pct in the first two months of this year from 33.3 pct in January/February 1986, the Federal Motor Office said. Foreign producers' sales totalled 58,484 in February compared with 64,967 in February 1986, with sales in the first two months declining to 103,368 from 132,105 units in the year-earlier period. Japan was the largest exporter to West Germany although its share fell to 12.8 pct from 13.9 pct, France took 7.7 pct after 8.6 pct, while Italy's share rose to 5.9 pct from 5.5 pct. REUTER 
DEBT SOLUTION REQUIRES OPEN MARKETS, GERMAN BANKER

The solution of the world's debt crisis requires open markets but a possible resurgence of protectionism is the biggest danger, the president of the Federal Association of German Banks, Wolfgang Roeller, said. Roeller, who is also management board spokesman of Dresdner Bank AG, said in a radio interview it is unlikely Brazil's suspension last month of part of its interest payments would lead to a chain reaction in Latin America. It is important to increase the efficiency of debtor countries to such an extent they earn sufficient currency from exports to repay foreign debt, he said. Brazil had taken a unilateral step, Roeller said, but Brazil had a strong and broad economic base. With the help of appropriate economic programmes there should be a way to bring back financial stability to that country. Roeller said action on the debt situation had to be taken now. It could not be expected debtor countries would be able to repay debts in the short run, even if economic conditions improved. Programmes had to be developed which would strengthen the economic position of these countries, to ensure world economic growth so they are able to sell their products at adequate prices. Roeller said the debt crisis could only be solved in coordination with governments, international organisations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and creditor banks. "This is not a topic which can be solved by creditor banks alone," he said. One aim had to be to raise the credit standing of debtor countries to such a degree they are able to raise funds on international credit markets again. He said a whole set of new ideas had been developed and he was convinced the international banking system would provide more funds, but the problem is not just economic but also political. REUTER 
GERMAN STEEL SUBSIDIES CANNOT CONTINUE - MINISTER

Economics Minister Martin Bangemann said the state could not continue to pour money into West Germany's ailing steel and coal industries because the subsidies endangered other parts of the economy. "The situation is completely absurd from an economic point of view," Bangemann told the newspaper Die Welt in an interview released ahead of publication tomorrow. "We are subsidising the production of mineral coal and steel to an enormous extent and at the same time putting a huge burden on all other branches of industry and making them uncompetitive," he said. Bangemann said the steel and coal industries were no longer capable of being competitive. Continued state subsidies would not save them but would only prolong their lives artifically for a few years, he said. "That is why I have refused to continue subsidising them in the way that we have done in the past," he said. Several steel firms have announced plans to reduce their workforces, citing weak prices and lower exports due to the strength of the mark and tough foreign competition. Bangemann said everything possible would be done to find new jobs for the workers affected by the cuts. REUTER 
VW EXPECTS HIGHER GERMAN MARKET SHARE IN 1987

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> expects to increase its market share in West Germany in the full year 1987 after registering gains in the first two months of the year, managing board chairman Carl Hahn said. He told Reuters in an interview that incoming orders in West Germany, VW's largest single market, had been very good in early 1987. Its share of the domestic car market rose to 29 pct in January and February from 26 pct in the year-ago period. Hahn declined to forecast first quarter 1987 results, or answer questions about the VW currency scandal. Hahn said he did not want to elaborate on statements VW had already issued on the affair and noted the case was now in the hands of state prosecutors. VW, like other car manufacturers, had encountered difficult market conditions in the United States in early 1987, Hahn said, without giving details. He declined to predict U.S. Sales for 1987 as a whole, saying it was particularly difficult this year to forecast sales trends in North America, VW's second largest regional market after Western Europe. Hahn declined to comment directly on reports that 1986 losses at Spanish subsidiary Sociedad Espanola de Automoviles de Turismo (SEAT) totalled up to 27 billion pesetas or that these losses were twice as high as expected. But he said SEAT was developing according to plan and added the introduction of international accounting standards and changes to VW's own had led to some corrections to SEAT's figures. VW hoped SEAT would reach break-even point in the course of this year. In 1986 SEAT's volume sales had been better than expected, Hahn said. In January and February, 1987, SEAT's turnover in Europe rose 40 pct compared with the same months of 1986, Hahn said. Its European market share rose to 1.9 pct in January and February from 1.6 pct a year earlier. Hahn said VW hoped to sign a contract with Ford Motor Co <F.N> in the summer on the planned joint venture between the two companies' loss-making operations in Argentina and Brazil. A provisional joint management team was already looking at ways of synchronising the two operations, he said. VW's operations in Mexico had made again made a profit in 1986, he added. Hahn, speaking to Reuters in an interview to mark production of VW's 50 millionth car, said VW had no plans to make acquisitions outside the automotive sector. It also did not expect to raise capital again in the foreseeable future after increasing capital by 25 pct in 1986 in the biggest rights issue in West German history, Hahn said. In a separate interview Karl-Heinz Briam, the management board member responsible for labour relations, said VW did not currently plan to increase its workforce further this year. All of VW's domestic plants and most of its foreign production facilities were currently operating at full capacity, Briam said. The exceptions were VW's Nigerian operations and its Westmoreland plant in Pennsylvania. Hahn said VW had recently taken steps to increase the flexibility and improve the structure of the Westmoreland plant. However, VW was not planning to increase production there at the moment. "Most of the VW vehicles (sold in the U.S.) will, as before, be built in Germany," Hahn said. Hahn said there was room for further growth in West Germany, and predicted that 1987 would be a good year generally for the industry domestically. Wolfgang Lincke, head of car development at VW, said the increasing environmental awareness of West German consumers would allow VW to sell more "higher value" cars in future containing equipment such as catalytic converters, which cut exhaust emissions. Lincke declined to be drawn on when VW may introduce a successor to its current Golf model, which in 1983 replaced the original dating from 1974. VW would in any case retain the Golf name. Of the 50 mln VW cars built since VW started commercial production after World War II, nearly nine mln have been Golfs, Lincke said. VW, which traditionally releases its annual results in April or May, said last week 1986 profit and dividend would both be unchanged despite the need to make provision to cover the possible loss of 480 mln marks from allegedly fraudulent hedging operations. VW has also said the currency scandal would not affect the company's investment spending. REUTER 
DEBT SOLUTION REQUIRES OPEN MARKETS, GERMAN BANKER

The solution of the world's debt crisis requires open markets but a possible resurgence of protectionism is the biggest danger, the president of the Federal Association of German Banks, Wolfgang Roeller, said. Roeller, who is also management board spokesman of Dresdner Bank AG, said in a radio interview it is unlikely Brazil's suspension last month of part of its interest payments would lead to a chain reaction in Latin America. It is important to increase the efficiency of debtor countries to such an extent they earn sufficient currency from exports to repay foreign debt, he said. Brazil had taken a unilateral step, Roeller said, but Brazil had a strong and broad economic base. With the help of appropriate economic programmes there should be a way to bring back financial stability to that country. Roeller said action on the debt situation had to be taken now. It could not be expected debtor countries would be able to repay debts in the short run, even if economic conditions improved. Programmes had to be developed which would strengthen the economic position of these countries, to ensure world economic growth so they are able to sell their products at adequate prices. Roeller said the debt crisis could only be solved in coordination with governments, international organisations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and creditor banks. "This is not a topic which can be solved by creditor banks alone," he said. One aim had to be to raise the credit standing of debtor countries to such a degree they are able to raise funds on international credit markets again. He said a whole set of new ideas had been developed and he was convinced the international banking system would provide more funds, but the problem is not just economic but also political. REUTER 
GERMAN BUSINESS CLIMATE WORSENS SLIGHTLY - INSTITUTE

The business climate in West German manufacturing industry worsened slightly last month after deteriorating markedly in January, the IFO economic research institute said. It said its February survey showed firms were also increasingly pessimistic about the outlook for the coming months, causing them to cut back production plans. IFO blamed the worsening of the business climate and outlook largely on expectations of further declines in foreign demand. More than a quarter of the firms polled said they thought orders in hand were insufficient. Overall, the business climate in February could be described as just short of satisfactory, IFO said. In a breakdown of responses by industrial sector, the institute said manufacturers of basic products judged the business climate to be slightly less favourable in February than in January. For the coming months they expect export prospects to dim and production to fall, it added. Chemical firms reported a slight improvement in demand but they increasingly said orders on hand were insufficient. The business climate in the capital goods industry was unchanged in February compared with January, but IFO said this was due entirely to positive reports from makers of commercial vehicles. Demand in the capital goods sector was generally described as weak, with the outlook in February cloudier than it had been in January, the institute said. The business climate in the consumer durables sector remained above the industry average in February. Carmakers were again positive about current business but forecast a slight worsening of business conditions in the near future. In the consumer goods industry business conditions were described as favourable in February. A small cutback in production meant orders on hand in this sector rose compared with January, the institute said. REUTER 
BANGEMANN DENIES NEWSPAPER INTERVIEW ON SUBSIDIES

The West German Economics Minister today denied giving a newspaper interview which quoted him as saying the state could not continue to pour money into the country's ailing steel and coal industries. Economics Ministry spokesman Dieter Vogel said in a statement Bangemann had contacted him from New Zealand, where he is attending a General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) ministerial meeting, to deny giving the interview to the conservative daily Die Welt. The paper quoted Bangemann as saying that continued subsidies would endanger other parts of the German economy by making them uncompetitive. Vogel said Bangemann had pledged that everything possible would be done to minimize the effects of reduced coal and steel production on the workforces and regions concerned. Die Welt said the interview with Bangemann had taken place at a meeting of his Free Democratic Party (FDP) in Darmstadt last Friday, adding that it had a tape recording of his comments which it would publish tomorrow. Reuter 
HAHN SAYS VW EQUAL TO CURRENCY SCANDAL CHALLENGE

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> managing board chairman Carl Hahn said the company was equal to the challenge of overcoming potential losses from allegedly fraudulent currency transactions. He said the potential losses of 480 mln marks were a setback for VW but added the company's past conservative financial management meant VW was up to the challenge. VW would not cut back on investment or fringe benefits because of the possible currency losses, he told workers in a speech before driving the 50 millionth vehicle produced by VW off the assembly line. Reuter 
BOLIVIA'S TOP UNION LEADER JOINS MINERS FAST

Bolivia's top union leader today joined a hunger strike by 1,300 state employed miners and workers to press for higher wages he said. Juan Lechin Oquendo, the veteran secretary general of the Bolivian Labour Organization, COB, told reporters: "I am joining the fast to abide with our call for a hunger strike". Lechin, 83, became one of 12 COB leaders to join a hunger strike to protest against the austerity programme of the government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro. The striking leader began his fast as leaders of 9,000 miners employed by the state corporation COMIBOL were due to star negotiations on ways to solve their conflict over pay. About 1,300 miners and workers entered today their fourth day of fast in union offices and Roman Catholic churches to press for a substantial hike in Bolivia's minimum monthly wage, which is 40 bolivianos (about 20 dlrs), COB leader Walter Degadillo said. "I will take part in the miners' negotiations because that does not force me to suspend my fast," Lechin told reporters. The COMIBOL miners' strike entered its fifth day to press for higher wages and more funds for the mining nationalised industry. About 20,000 miners, or two-thirds of the working force, have been laid off through the government's decision to streamline the deficit-ridden state corporation following a collapse in the international tin price. The government, faced with mounting social unrest against its economic policies, has called the miners' strike and fasts part of a campaign aimed at discrediting it during the visit of West German president Richard von Weizsaecker, who began a four-day visit last Friday. "I regret not being able to attend an invitation by president Weizsaecker to a dinner tonight because I am on a hunger strike," Lechin told reporters. "I also have to orga- nise the strike." Weizsaecker is hosting a dinner tonight for Paz Estenssoro and had invited both Lechin and Victor Lopez, the miners' federation top leader. Although lopez has not joined the fast, union sources said its unlikely he would attend the dinner. Reuter 
GERMAN BANKING AUTHORITIES DRAWN INTO VW CASE

West Germany's banking authorities are being drawn into the currency scandal surrounding Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> as the repercussions and allegations in the financial community widen, banking sources said. The Bundesbank has seconded one of its currency experts to help the state prosecutor investigating the currency fraud at Volkswagen, VW, in Brunswick, a Bundesbank spokesman said. The Federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin also is considering press allegations that several banks "parked" open positions with VW, breaching banking regulations. Earlier this month Volkswagen said it had incurred potential losses of 480 mln marks in an alleged fraud involving the hedging of open currency positions. The foreign exchange activities of a large non-bank corporation would not normally attract the attention of West German banking regulators. Their strict foreign exchange rules, set up after the Herstatt banking crash in 1974, apply only to banks. "This strict banking supervision aims to protect special interests -- creditors and depositors," the Bundesbank spokesman said, adding company shareholders were not covered. "The Volkswagen case, in so far as it involves Volkswagen's normal foreign exchange business, lies far outside the area of the Bundesbank," he said. The Bundesbank's decision to send a currency expert to Brunswick to help investigations into activities involving Volkswagen's foreign exchange dealing room was part of the normal assistance rendered by one public authority to another. The expert will count as part of the state prosecutor's staff and not report back to the Bundesbank, he said. But the Bundesbank could get more closely involved in allegations that banks used VW to circumvent regulations. Section 1a of the Banking Law requires banks at the close of business each day to hold no more than 30 pct of their capital and reserves in open positions. The section was introduced after the Herstatt bank crash in 1974 due to currency speculation. The Platow Brief financial newsletter said on Friday that about 16 banks, mainly foreign, had been circumventing section 1a by "parking" such excess open positions with VW. This would mean that the bank concerned would sell the position temporarily to VW, buying it back a day or so later. However, such repurchase agreements are expressly included in section 1a as still counting as open positions. A spokesman for the Federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin said it was following the allegations but investigations were difficult because the 16 banks had not been named. He declined to say what steps were being taken. But banking sources said the Supervisory Office as an initial step had approached the Platow Brief for the identity of the banks, but this had been refused. The Platow Brief declined comment. If the Supervisory Office ascertains that the banking regulations have been infringed, it will pursue the case with the assistance of the Bundesbank. The Office, subordinate to the Finance Ministry, does not have branches outside Berlin. The independent Bundesbank however operates 203 branches in West Germany, closely monitoring local banks. Banks deposit statistics, including currency position data, once a month with the Bundesbank's regional administrations at federal state level, the Landeszentralbanken (LZBs). Currency dealers said parking excess positions with non-banking corporates was frequent practice. Such positions would often be sold for tomorrow/next delivery, with a verbal agreement to buy it back the next day at the same rate. A VW spokesman said it was company policy not to undertake currency hedging but he confirmed that arbitrage was allowed. He declined to estimate the volume of currency arbitraging. German press reports have put it at 80 billion marks a year. The spokesman declined to comment on how it would have been possible to carry out a fraud involving currency hedging given the company's policy not to conduct this kind of business. VW finance director Rolf Selowsky accepted responsibility and resigned. VW has suspended six other officials and fired its former foreign exchange chief, Burkhard "Bobby" Junger. Management board chief Carl Hahn told a ceremony today marking VW's 50 millionth vehicle that personnel changes did not mean any of those involved was guilty. REUTER 
W. GERMANY, BOLIVIA SIGN TWO COOPERATION PACTS

West Germany and Bolivia signed two cooperation treaties today expected to nearly double the amount of overall aid the south american country receives from its european trade partner, german officials said. Paul Resch, economic attache for the west german embassy, told reuters that Germany had become the biggest european community lender to bolivia. West german aid to Bolivia last year totalled 50 mln marks and officials travelling with President Richard Von Weizsaecker said overall aid to Bolivia is expected to reach 91 mln marks this year. Weizsaecker is expected to announce the figure in a major speech later today at the bolivian congress, the officials said. Reuter 
CAR BOMB EXPLODES AT BRITISH BASE IN W. GERMANY

A big car bomb exploded at the headquarters of the British Rhine army near Moenchengladbach in West Germany tonight, police said. A police spokesman said it was not immediately known if anyone was killed in the blast. He said some people had been injured but did not know how many. Reuter 
WEST GERMANY SHARPLY BOOSTS AID TO BOLIVIA

West German aid to Bolivia will rise to 91 mln marks in 1987 from 50 mln in 1986, West German President Richard Von Weizsaecker said. Weizsaecker, speaking to the Bolivian Congress yesterday, said of Latin America's 380 billion dlr foreign debt, "Debtor countries and creditors must cooperate with the banks and international financial organizations to find long-term solutions." Bolivia's debts total 4.4 billion dlrs. "We wish to reach a reasonable agreement with Bolivia so that the country can experience a significant financial respite," Weizsaecker said. The two countries earlier signed two technical and financial cooperation treaties. West German officials said aid last year included 35 mln marks in financial cooperation. Bolivian Foreign Minister Guillermo Bedregal told reporters West Germany would provide 300 mln marks to help fight Bolivia's cocaine trade. The illegal trade in cocaine is West Germany's most worrisome drug problem, West German officials said. REUTER 
GERMAN FEBRUARY IMPORT PRICES FALL

Import prices in West Germany fell 0.7 pct in February from January to stand 15.6 pct below their level in February 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. In January the import price index, base 1980, was unchanged compared with December but 17.8 pct lower against January 1986. February export prices, same base as import prices, were unchanged compared with January and 2.5 pct lower than in February 1986. In January export prices fell 0.3 pct against December to stand 3.0 pct lower than in January 1986. REUTER 
GERMAN FEB SUGAR STOCKS UP IN YEAR, DOWN IN MONTH

West German sugar stocks rose to 2.60 mln tonnes, white value, at the end of February from 2.50 mln at the same time a year earlier, the sugar industry association WVZ said. However, stocks were well below the 2.82 mln held at the end of January. Sugar exports between October 1 and February 28 rose to 449,253 tonnes from 435,727 in the same period of 1985/86. Sales to non-European Community countries rose to 419,541 tonnes from 349,511, while sales within the EC fell sharply to 29,712 tonnes from 86,216. Imports in October-February fell to 59,605 tonnes from 76,044 in the same months a year earlier, the sugar industry association said. Human sugar consumption in October-February rose to 817,856 tonnes from 799,128 in the year-ago period. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK ALLOCATES 6.5 BILLION MARKS IN TENDER

The Bundesbank accepted bids for 6.5 billion marks at today's tender for a 28-day securities repurchase pact at a rate of 3.80 pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks, which bid for a total 8.6 billion marks liquidity, will be credited with the funds allocated tomorrow and must buy back securities pledged on April 22. The allocation was in line with market expectations the Bundesbank would provide more than the 3.4 billion marks draining from this week as an earlier facility expires. Call money fell to 3.60/70 pct ahead of the allocation from 3.75/85 pct yesterday, dealers said. The excess allocation compensates for public funds leaving the system which the Bundesbank added last week via government-owned banks. However major tax payments by banks on behalf of customers drew to a close this week, lessening the need for liquidity. The call money declines surprised some dealers, who speculated it was because the Bundesbank disbursed further government funds today. However, most said this had not occurred. Banks were well stocked with liquidity, having 47.1 billion marks in minimum reserves at the Bundesbank on Friday, up from 49.9 billion on Thursday. Average daily reserves over the first 20 days of the month fell to 52.6 billion from 53.1 billion. For all of March, banks would be required to hold net daily average reserves of 50.7 billion marks, dealers said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN 1986 SUGAR OUTPUT RISES

West German sugar production last year rose 38,000 tonnes to an estimated 3.17 mln tonnes, the Agricultural Ministry said. It said the increase was exclusively due to higher beet sugar content, which went up to 17.93 pct from 17.3 pct in 1985. Last year's beet deliveries totalled 20.22 mln tonnes, down 554,000 tonnes from the previous year. The ministry estimates West Germany's sugar self-sufficiency during the current agricultural year (July/June) unchanged at 137 pct. REUTER 
HOESCH WINS 22 MLN MARK ORDER FROM EAST GERMANY

<Hoesch AG> said its <Hoesch Maschinenfabrik Deutschland AG> subsidiary has won a 22 mln mark East German order for equipment to produce steel rope-reinforced conveyor belts. The equipment, to be installed at the VEB Transportgummi company in the East German town of Bad Blankenburg, will be used to produce belts of up to three meters wide, a company statement said. REUTER 
BABCOCK UNIT WINS ORDER FOR VENEZUELAN POWER PLANT

Deutsche Babcock AG <DBCG.F> said its wholly-owned Borsig GmbH subsidiary has won a 78 mln mark order to build a conventional power station block for Venezuela's state-owned electricity company CADAFE. It said the installation, which can be powered by oil or gas, should go on stream at the end of 1988. REUTER 
VEBA PLACEMENT CONTINUES FOR SMALL SHAREHOLDERS

The placement of 10.1 mln government owned shares in Veba AG <VEBG.F> is still open for small shareholders but lead manager Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> has already closed its books for institutional investors, a Deutsche spokesman said in answer to queries. Under the terms of the placement which opened on Monday, small shareholders were given priority for three days so that this privilege will not lapse until close of business today. Consortium banks set aside fixed amounts for small shareholders. The spokesman could not say how big these were, or whether other banks had closed books for institutions. REUTER 
WEST GERMANS TO MINT COMMUNITY ANNIVERSARY COIN

The West German Cabinet approved a plan to mint a special 10-mark coin commemorating the 30th anniversary of the European Community this year. The silver-copper alloy coin will be minted in an edition of 8.35 mln, a Finance Ministry statement said. REUTER 
KRUPP TO BUILD SOUTH KOREAN STEEL PLANT

Fried. Krupp GmbH said its Krupp Industrietechnik GmbH subsidiary has won a 130 mln marks joint order with Samsung Shipbuilding and Heavy Industries Co. Ltd of Seoul for a steel works in Pohang, South Korea. It said the order, awarded by the Pohang Iron and Steel Co. Ltd, involves a works due to go on stream in 1989 producing 250,000 tonnes of non-corrosive quality steels annually. The consortium partners will supply the plant, supervise its construction and advise on product processing, with Krupp providing a 100-tonne capacity arc furnace and a converter for steel refining. The West German company will supply ladles, vehicles, electrical and exhaust cooling apparatus and dust filters. It will also fit out the plant's laboratory. Among other things Krupp said it will provide know-how for all production phases and train the Korean workforce. It said Samsung will take care of the Korean part of the engineering and electrical work, the water treatment and other mechanical equipment, according to Krupp basic engineering. Extruded ingots from the plant will be converted to sheet in an existing hot rolling mill. The sheet will be processed in facilities which are to be erected, Krupp said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN JAN COFFEE IMPORTS DOWN ON YEAR-AGO

West German gross green coffee imports in January fell sharply to 38,616 tonnes from 54,576 in January last year, figures from the Federal Statistics Office show. Imports of decaffeinated unroasted coffee were 396 tonnes against nil a year earlier. Reuter 
INSPECTORATE ISSUES 200 MLN MARK EQUITY EUROBOND

A unit of Inspectorate International AG <INSZ.Z> is raising 200 mln marks through an equity warrant eurobond package with a two pct coupon priced at par, lead manager Schweizerische Bankverein (Deutschland) AG said. The five-year bond, for Inspectorate International Finance NV, gives investors options on two separate warrant series "A" and "B" exercisable into participation certificates in parent and guarantor Inspectorate International AG. The first "A" series carries warrants for four participation certificates. Upon exercising the "A" warrants, investors also get two warrants for the "B" series. The "A" exercise period runs from May 7, 1987, to August 6, 1987. The exercise price is 543 Swiss francs. Of the two "B" warrants, one entitles investors to purchase one participation certificate in Inspectorate International AG and the other provides seven warrants. Investors may pay for "B" participation certificates by redeeming the bond issued today. In this case, the bond, issued in denominations of 5,000 marks, will be valued at a fixed price of 4,200 Swiss francs, or 119.05 francs per 100 marks. Participation certificates acquired with "B" warrants will be priced at 597 francs, equalling the price of the first tranche, plus a 10 pct premium. The exercise period for the "B" series is from August 8, 1987 to May 5, 1991. Fees for the bond total 2-1/4 pct, with 1-1/2 points for selling, and 1-3/4 for management and underwriting combined. Investors will pay for the bond on April 8, and the bond pays annual interest on the same day. It matures on April 8, 1992. The bond and warrants will be listed in Frankfurt. If all participation share warrants are exercised, the company will obtain some 300 mln marks in new equity. The construction allows Inspectorate to borrow at lower cost than a comparable convertible bond and will give the Inspectorate equity through issues of participation certificates in West Germany, a Swiss Bank Corp spokesman said. Inspectorate requires funding to finance its purchase of a 51 pct stake in Harpener AG, a diversified West German group, and other recent acquisitions. REUTER 
MARCH PRICES FELL IN GERMAN STATE ON YEAR-AGO

The cost of living in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's most populous state, fell 0.1 pct in the month to mid-March to stand 0.5 pct lower than at the same time a year earlier, the regional statistics office said. Prices had risen 0.3 pct in the month to mid-February but had fallen 0.7 pct year-on-year. The regional figures are considered a good guide to national inflation trends. The Federal Statistics Office is due to publish provisional national figures for March by the end of this month. REUTER 
FIAT MAY ISSUE BOND FOR LIBYAN STAKE, PAPER SAYS

Fiat Spa <FIAT.MI> is considering issuing a eurobond of up to 384 mln dlrs, convertible or with warrants attached for exercise into its shares still with banks after the placement of the Libyan stake last autumn, the financial daily Handelsblatt reported, quoting bourse sources. The newspaper gave no other details. But dealers said shares of Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> had been strong in recent days, partly on hopes that the issue would allow the bank to place its Fiat quota with investors at a reasonable price. Deutsche was lead underwriter for the 2.13 billion dlr Fiat placement, announced on September 23. In Milan, a Fiat spokesman had no comment on the reports. A Deutsche Bank spokesman here said he had no knowledge of a possible equity-linked Fiat bond. But German banking sources said concern the bank had to take a hefty writedown for its unplaced Fiat stock had weighed heavily on its share price. Milan share dealers also said Fiat stock had been under pressure since the placement. Ordinary shares rose 20 lire to 12,880 today, but were well down from 16,600 on September 23. Sources close to Italian state-owned investment bank IMI said earlier this month that a convertible issue was being considered, but gave no details of the amount involved. REUTER 
GERMAN TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT DATA DUE TODAY

The Federal Statistics Office will today publish trade and current account figures for February, a spokeswoman said in reply to queries. In January the current account surplus provisionally narrowed to 4.9 billion marks from 8.5 billion in December. The provisional January trade surplus narrowed to 7.2 billion marks from a record 11.6 billion marks the month before. In February 1986 the current account had shown a 6.85 billion mark surplus and the trade account a 6.84 billion surplus. REUTER 
FRIED. KRUPP GMBH <KRPG.D> YEAR 1986

Provisional world group 1986 third party turnover 15.9 billion marks vs 18.5 billion. Third party incoming orders 15.5 billion vs 16.9 billion. Orders on hand at end-1986 9.1 billion vs 10.3 billion. Workforce at end-1986 68,043 vs 67,402. REUTER 
GERMAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN FEBRUARY

West Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional 6.6 billion marks in February from a slightly downwards revised 4.8 billion in January, a spokeswoman for the Federal Statistics Office said. The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4 billion marks from 7.2 billion in January, she added. The Statistics Office had originally put the January current account surplus at 4.9 billion marks. The February trade surplus was well up on the 6.84 billion mark surplus posted in the same month of 1986. But the current account surplus was down slightly from the 6.85 billion surplus recorded in February 1986. A Statistics Office statement said the widening of the February current account surplus compared with January was due to seasonal factors. Neither the trade nor current account figures are seasonally adjusted. February imports, measured in terms of value, totalled 32.11 billion marks, a decline of 10 pct against February 1986 but a rise of 5.5 pct against January. Exports in February, also in value terms, totalled 42.56 billion marks, 0.5 pct less than in February 1986 but up 13 pct compared with January. The Statistics Office said it was not yet able to calculate the real change in exports and imports in February. But for comparison purposes it noted that in January the average value of imports had fallen 15 pct year-on-year while the average value of exports had declined by only 4.4 pct. Within the current account, the services account had 300 mln marks deficit, supplementary trade items a 200 mln mark surplus while transfer payments posted a 3.7 billion mark deficit. Taking the first two months of 1987 together, imports in value terms fell 14 pct to 62.6 billion marks compared with a year earlier. The value of exports totalled 80.2 billion marks, a decline of 7.4 pct against the same months of 1986. The resulting trade surplus of 17.6 billion marks for January/February compares with a cumulative surplus of 14.1 billion marks in the year-ago period. The cumulative current account surplus for January and February 1987 totalled 11.3 billion marks against 11.4 billion marks a year earlier, the Statistics Office said. Bank economists said the rise in the February trade surplus reflected an improvement in the terms of trade as well as seasonal factors. The Federal Statistics Office said earlier this week that February import prices fell 0.7 pct against January while export prices were unchanged. "The rise in the nominal figures masks a lower export trend that is not expected to change for several months at least," said an economist. He said the nominal trade surplus for 1987 as a whole is likely to fall only slightly from the record 112.2 billion marks in 1986 but other economists said the surplus could fall to around 80 billion marks. An economist at the Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft (BfG) in Frankfurt said a two-month comparison of trade figures gave a more accurate picture of West Germany's trade position. He noted the 17.6 billion mark surplus for January and February together was lower than the 21.6 billion mark surplus posted in November and December. "The trend is clearly lower," he said. This economist, who declined to be named, said the February rise was also partly explained by special factors in January, when there had been a number of public holidays as well as extremely cold weather, both of which hindered trade. REUTER 
NO PESSIMISM FOR GERMAN EXPORTERS, MINISTRY

Firms need not be pessimistic about export prospects even though foreign markets have become more difficult because of the mark's strength the Economics Ministry said. The ministry's parliamentary state secretary Ludolf Georg von Wartenberg, told a business conference German exports could start rising again in real terms during 1987, reversing the lower export trend which emerged in mid-1986. But even if the turnaround did not occur, there would be no need to worry about the economy as long as the weakness of exports did not affect currently good domestic demand. Von Wartenberg said consumer demand remained quite good but noted there had been a cooling in the investment climate. "This is certainly a reason for heightened watchfulness but not for stimulative steps," he said. The best way for Bonn to help its exporters is to work actively to promote free world trade, he added. Von Wartenberg said the economy still had good export opportunities. Price alone was not the only factor in international competitiveness, he said, adding German firms have a reputation for high quality standards, prompt delivery times and good service. Von Wartenberg said the government was in a difficult position on its trade figures. It faced international pressure to reduce its trade surplus, but West Germans were worried about the effect of the mark's strength on the country's exporters. Reports about the trade surplus, especially overseas, tended to concentrate on nominal trade figures, which rose to a record 112.2 billion marks in 1986, he said. But this rise was due entirely to the lower value of imports caused by the decline of both the dollar and oil prices. German exports have in fact been falling in real terms for sometime, he said. REUTER 
GERMAN NET CURRENCY RESERVES RISE

West German net currency reserves rose by 300 mln marks in the third week of March to 82.0 billion, following a fall of 5.4 billion marks in the previous week, the Bundesbank said. Non-currency reserves were unchanged at about 2.5 billion marks, bringing net monetary reserves to 84.5 billion. REUTER 
GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD RISING IN 2ND HALF 1987

The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said. Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale's trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins. "A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges," Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs. Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs. Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said. Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver. Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG's foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year. The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. REUTER 
SIEMENS U.S. TURNOVER TO RISE IN CURRENT YEAR

Siemens AG <SIEG.F> turnover in the United States will rise to about 2.6 billion dlrs in the current year to end September from 2.2 billion in 1985/86, management board chairman Karlheinz Kaske said. He told the annual meeting 80 pct of last year's sales came from products made in the U.S.. He added Siemens was as interested as U.S. Authorities in reducing the massive trade deficit and calming down trade relations. "But we would show no understanding if this (trade deficit reduction) was attempted through means incompatible with the principle of free world trade," Kaske said. Siemens has been the subject of pressure by U.S. Telecommunications authorities to limit its access to the U.S. Market for digital telephone switching equipment. The Federal Communications Commission announced in December it was starting an enquiry into the blocking of free access to the telecommunications market by foreign firms, with officers saying reciprocal access was not available to U.S. Firms abroad. For years Siemens was the only supplier of public switching stations to the Bundespost, the German federal post office. Regulatory authorities in 1982 opened Bundespost contracts to tenders from other domestic and foreign suppliers. But foreign authorities have complained that too many restrictions to overseas suppliers still remain. Kaske said neither Siemens nor the Bundespost could be held responsible for the U.S. Trade deficit and noted the U.S. Was still achieving substantial surpluses in trade with West Germany in the electrical and telecommunications sector. The Bundespost is far more open to supplies from abroad than telephone companies in the U.S. Japan or France, he added. Reuter 
 German March cost of living 0.2 pct below year ago (Feb 0.5 pct below) - official



GERMAN COST OF LIVING FALLS IN MARCH ON YEAR-AGO

The cost of living in West Germany was provisionally unchanged in March compared with February but fell 0.2 pct against March 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. In February the cost of living rose 0.1 pct from January but fell 0.5 pct compared with February 1986. The office said final figures for March will be released in about 10 days. REUTER 
GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD FIRMING LATER THIS YEAR

The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said. Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale's trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins. "A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges," Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs. Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs. Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said. Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver. Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG's foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year. The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. Reuter 
GERMAN TAX CUT BILL TO GO BEFORE CABINET APRIL 1

The West German Finance Ministry said the cabinet will discuss a bill on Wednesday to increase tax cuts by an extra 5.2 billion marks next year to a total of 13.7 billion marks. The additional tax cuts were agreed within the government coalition in early March after Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg pledged at the six-nation monetary conference in Paris in February to increase the size of the 1988 tax cuts. The bill will be presented in parliament at a later, unspecified date after the cabinet's deliberations. REUTER 
GERMAN RETAILERS EXPECT GOOD 1987

West German retailers expect another good year in 1987 even though they will not be able to repeat the sharp increase in turnover they enjoyed in 1986, the General Association of the German Retail Trade (HDE) said. HDE President Wolfgang Hinrichs said retailers would be satisfied with a real turnover increase of between 2.5 pct to three pct in 1987 after last year's steep 3.7 pct rise. Hinrichs said the 1986 turnover increase had brought the first hesitant signs of improvement in earnings in the West German retail sector. REUTER 
METALLGESELLSCHAFT PLANS COMMODITY FUTURES VENTURE

Metallgesellschaft AG <METG.F> said it is founding a company to work in commodities futures and options trading and financial services linked to these. The new company, to be called <MG Commodity Corp>, will be based in Zug, Switzerland, and operate from a branch in Hamburg. Metallgesellschaft will hold 80 pct of the company, and the other 20 pct will be held by Dieter Worms. REUTER 
NIXDORF WINS 300 MLN MARK LABOUR EXCHANGE ORDER

Nixdorf Computer AG <NIXG.F> said it won an order worth about 300 mln marks from the West German Federal Labour Office to computerise 90 local labour exchanges. The contract is the largest single order in Nixdorf's history, the company said in a statement. A total of 12,000 counsellors will be equipped with computers to support their job placement and counselling activities. Installation is to be completed by early 1990. The computer systems are models from the Nixdorf Targon /32 product family, designed to run under UNIX, the international standard operating system. REUTER 
GERMAN STOCKS SYSTEM SHOULD DEVELOP ALONGSIDE CITY

The German auction system of shares trading, retaining the business floor, can develop in parallel to off-floor computer trading introduced in London in the "Big Bang," Frankfurt stock exchange president Michael Hauck said. Hauck told a conference that it was unclear if the Frankfurt floor would become superfluous. The Frankfurt exchange did 55 pct of all German securities trading and was investing 86 mln marks in renovating its building. A screen-delivered in-house quotation system would soon be in place too. The nature of the auction system limited how far trading hours could be extended from the present two-hour session. Other practical problems inhibited the German ability to follow London's moves. Official brokers, who set the prices, were under the control of the Finance Ministry. This meant transfer of securities control to an independent body, if desired, would need legislative changes, Hauck said. "Shorting" stocks in Germany was also prohibited by the rules for pension and insurance funds. They could thus not be lent out for the kind of speculative positions taken by London market makers. But Hauck said the system in London could be criticised for being too distant from those it should serve. REUTER 
BONN WELCOMES PUBLIC SECTOR WAGE SETTLEMENT

The government welcomed a wage settlement for public sector workers which was agreed late last night as a fair compromise for both sides, government spokesman Friedhelm Ost told reporters. The wage settlement gives 2.3 mln workers in federal, state and local governments a 3.4 pct wage increase for 1987, retroactive from January 1. The public sector union OeTV had originally sought a six pct increase, while the government's initial offer was 2.7 pct. REUTER 
KRUPP MANAGER ARRESTED FOR FRAUD IN W. GERMANY

A manager with steel producer Krupp Stahl AG <KRPG.F> was arrested yesterday for fraud and falsifying documents, the state prosecutor's office said today. Two executives of steel trading companies in North Rhine Westphalia and Hanover were also arrested for aiding the Krupp manager, a spokesman for the office said. The office identified the manager only as Alex I. He said the manager is charged with faking signatures on forms ordering large shipments of heavy steel plate from one of the trading companies for which Krupp AG paid. The spokesman said the manager ordered the shipments, which on paper were for Krupp Stahl AG in Bochum but were delivered to the trade house near Hanover. The three men are also accused of pocketing profits from the sale of the steel plates, but both Krupp and the prosecutor's office declined comment on how much money was involved. The Hanover daily Hannoversche Allgemeine said in an article today the shipments' order value totalled 100 million marks, while another local daily, the Neue Presse, put the value at 50 million marks. REUTER 
GERMAN FEBRUARY WHOLESALE TURNOVER RISES ONE PCT

West German wholesale turnover provisionally totalled about 58 billion marks in February, a rise of a real one pct compared with the same month last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. Turnover fell a nominal seven pct from February last year, down by around four billion marks, it added. Turnover of about 114 billion marks in the first two months of 1987 represented a real decline of two pct from the same 1986 period. According to final figures, wholesale turnover had fallen by a real 5.7 pct in January, an office spokeswoman said. REUTER 
GERMAN CALL MONEY RISES ON PENSION PAYMENTS

Call money rose to 3.70/80 pct from 3.50/60 pct in moderate business as liquidity drained from the system on pension payments by insurance firms, dealers said. But the market was relatively liquid for the month's end, when rates usually tighten, dealers said. Call money was still at or slightly below the 3.80 pct rate set on the most recent Bundesbank securities repurchase offer last week. The insurances would probably draw down some 11 billion marks for pension payments. But part of this would be offset by an estimated five to six billion marks flowing in from treasury bills bought from the Bundesbank on Thursday, dealers said. Rates could ease later in the week as bank customers deposit part of their pension payments back with the banks tomorrow and Wednesday, and banks face reserve requirements for a new month, dealers said. On Thursday, banks' actual daily reserve holdings fell to 43.3 billion marks, down substantially from 49.1 billion on Wednesday. But the daily average holdings for the first 25 days of the month stood at 51.8 billion marks, well above the required daily average net reserve holdings of 50.7 billion. The Bundesbank has not scheduled a securities repurchase tender this week, since there is no expiring prior pact. dealers said liquidity was adequate without the addition of new repo funding. If tightness does occur the Bundesbank may add short-term temporary federal government funds to counteract this. The last such liquidity injection was carried out as call money rates rose above 4.00 pct earlier this month, dealers said. REUTER 
TOP QUALITIES SOUGHT ON HAMBURG COFFEE MARKET

The green coffee market saw some demand for high quality coffees in the past week, but business was described as generally unsatisfactory, trade sources said. Especially sought were spot East African and Ethiopian and some Brazils, they said, adding that some high grade robustas also met some demand. Sporadic business was noted in the second hand which offered Kenya coffee for May/June shipment up to 25 dlrs below origin levels. Roasters are said to be well covered and are not expected to enter the market for larger purchases in the near term. REUTER 
ICN MARK EUROBOND ISSUE NOW UNCERTAIN

Plans by the U.S.-based ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc <ICN.N> to issue a mark eurobond soon are in doubt owing to uncertainties about future expansion, Arab Banking Corp - Daus and Co GmbH (ABC DAUS) said. During a presentation in February ICN had said it would issue its first mark eurobond sometime this spring ICN planned to issue a bond to provide funds to acquire pharmaceuticals firms and expand its marketing base, Daus said in a statement. But uncertainty about an acquisition, coupled with Eastman Kodak Co's <EK.N> announcement it plans to sell its 2.3 pct stake in ICN, had made a launch date uncertain. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKS OUTLOOK CLOUDIER AFTER RECORD 1986

When the largest German "universal" banks begin announcing 1986 results this week they should report the third consecutive record year. But prospects for 1987 and beyond would be distinctly cloudier, bank analysts said. Results should show the trend which began this decade was unbroken. The proportion of earnings gleaned from commission business should be higher, while the role played by the more traditional credit lending business would show further erosion. Stock exchange volumes remained high last year, depite only modest share index rises in the year. In addition, major banks last year were very active in new bourse flotations and primary and secondary bond market business, banking analysts said. Despite last week's quite strong rally, the depressed stock market and forecasts that it would probably not attract sustained interest from the global investment community made a downturn in commission business most likely. Pressure on the interest rate margin and the increasing competition posed not only by foreign banks in Germany but by foreign stock exchanges, particularly London, would also bring more guarded prognoses for the future from board members. But one banking analyst said, "There's obviously no reason to paint too dark a picture. In this decade so far, the banks have posted practically only record profits, with increases of 50 pct and more. This cycle must clearly end sometime." One problem more psychological than real was West German banks' exposure to Latin American debtor nations. Bank officials have said that a good 70 pct of the exposure has been written off on balance sheets. Some analysts consider that the conservative accounting of German banks may in some cases have prompted the writedown of 80 or even 100 pct of several exposures there. With almost all Latin American exposure denominated in dlrs and written down two or three years ago, the U.S. Currency's fall has made further allocations to country risk reserves for the region virtually unnecessary. "German bank earnings have become much more dependent on developments on the stock exchange than on the debt question," a second analyst said. It is precisely because of bank reporting rules that allow the build up of "hidden" reserves known only to the Bundesbank, that few analysts produced precise earnings forecasts as they did for corporate non-banks. But Alastair France, of London brokers Alexanders, Laing & Cruickshank, said his clculations showed that Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> would report a very strong 1986, boosted&by herMdbsoa Z the FriedrichFlick ndstievewaltung KGAA industrial empire, followed by a fairly strong drop back this year and flat earnings in 1988. This contrasted with Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F> and Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> whose earnings would drift fractionally lower this year and then rise modestly in 1988. On the German DVFA basis, Deutsche should report 59 marks per share in 1986 and 49 marks in both ensuing years, France said. 
NORTH RHINE-WESTPHALIA TO ISSUE BOND TODAY

The West German federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia will issue a domestic mark bond this afternoon, a syndicate manager for the Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, WestLB, said. The most recent issue for the state traded today at a yield of 6.24 pct, one bank dealer said. Dealers expect today's issue to have a coupon of 6-1/8 pct. The volume of the issue is expected to be one billion marks. The last issue for one billion marks carried a 6-1/4 pct coupon for 10 years with a price of 99.65 for an issue yield of 6.30 pct. REUTER 
SIEMENS WINS DANISH TELEPHONE SWITCHING ORDER

Siemens AG <SIEG.F> said it won a major order from Jydisk Telfon Aktieselskab (JTAG), Denmark's second largest telephone company, for its EWSD digital dialing system. A Siemens statement gave no financial details. But it said the JTAG order, together with an order received in 1985 from the largest Danish telephone firm, Kjobenhavn Telefon Aktieselskab (KTAS), brought Siemens' order volume in Denmark to around 100 mln marks over the next 10 years. The JTAG order is for at least 125,000 telephone connections with an option to double this amount later. Siemens said the order meant that it, like Sweden's L.M. Ericsson <ERIC.ST>, now supply both of Denmark's largest telephone companies. Together Siemens and Ericsson have 90 pct of the Danish long-distance dialing system market, it added. REUTER 
HAPAG ORDERS NEW CONTAINER SHIP FROM CHINA

<Hapag Lloyd AG> said it ordered a new container vessel from China for its Australia service. The order was given to the <Hudong shipyards> in Shanghai after lengthy negotiations with West German shipbuilders, the company said in a statement. The Chinese firm offered to build the vessel at over 30 mln marks less than West German yards, despite government subsidies which Bonn pays its ailing shipbuilding industry, Hapag said. A company spokesman would not comment on the total order value but said the new vessel would replace the 33,333 dwt Sydney Express in 1989 and would carry 2,700 container units. REUTER 
GERMAN INDUSTRY SEES GROWTH CONTINUING SLUGGISH

The West German economy is expected to continue to grow at low levels despite a marked slowing of expansive forces in early 1987, the German Industry Association (BDI) said. A BDI statement warned, however, that a sense of proportion in 1987 wage settlements was necessary to ensure that growth was preserved. Union representatives and employers in the key engineering industry are currently negotiating on 1987's and union claims for a shorter working week. Last week public sector employees received a 3.4 pct wage rise retroactive from January 1. REUTER 
NORTH-RHINE WESTPHALIA ISSUES 1.2 BILLION MARK BOND

North-Rhine Westphalia is raising 1.2 billion marks through a 10-year domestic bond with a coupon of 6-1/8 pct and priced at 100.20, lead manager Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, WestLB, said. The bonds yield 6.10 pct at issue, and will be sold from April 2 to 7. Payment date is April 17, and the bond matures on the same date in 1997. Some one billion marks will be issued for immediate sale, and the remaining 200 mln marks will be set aside for market regulation. Listing will be on all eight West German exchanges. REUTER 



DUTCH MINISTER ATTACKS W. GERMAN FARM POSITION

Dutch Agriculture Minister Gerrit Braks said today the Netherlands deeply regretted West German opposition to radical reforms aimed at halting unwanted European Community (EC) food production. Braks told journalists he had rounded on his West German counter-part Ignaz Kiechle and accused Bonn of "lacking the courage to tell farmers their methods were outdated" during a private meeting of Christian Democrat politicians on Sunday. Braks said he told Kiechle: "You (Bonn) have had years to put your house in order and failed to do so." His comments came shortly before EC ministers failed to reach agreement at two days of talks on prices to be paid to EC farmers from the start of the new crop year on April 1. The ministers agreed to roll over the present year for two months and resume negotiations in Luxembourg next month. The proposals from the EC's Brussels headquarters would slash guaranteed prices paid to producers and seek to peg farm spending at its current two-thirds share of a total budget of 36.2 billion European Currency Units (41 billion dlrs). The attack from Braks comes at a time when relations between the EC's Executive Commission, which has proposed the reform measures, and Bonn are at an all-time low. The entire 17-man Commission is today visiting Bonn, once the most enthusiastic EC member, in an attempt to overcome differences largely resulting from bids to rein in out of control agricultural expenditure. Kiechle, who yesterday denounced as totally unacceptable new limits on producers' rights to sell unlimited amounts of excess products into Community warehouses, warned the meeting the measures lead to political instability in his country. He said they did not even form the basis of negotiation and stressed they were opposed by all political parties in the country. The issue of farm reform has been pushed to the top of the Community's agenda by the group's protracted financial crises and by growing international tension over farm surpluses and subsidies. Reuter 
COMMERZBANK TO FOUND NEW YORK INVESTMENT BANK

Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> management board chairman Walter Seipp said he hoped the bank would this year found a 100 pct investment bank subsidiary in New York. He told the annual news conference that the move would be an important and necessary widening of business activities in the U.S.. This is now mainly represented by a 40 pct stake in EuroPartners Securities Corp, New York, owned along with other European banks in a consortium. It would also be a further step in Commerzbank's full entry into global investment banking around the clock. Seipp also said securities trading activities had been considerably strengthened in London. The founding of Commerz Securities (Japan) Co. Ltd, which would begin business in the first half of 1987, widened the bank's activity in Tokyo. In 1987 also, Commerzbank planned to open a representative office in Istanbul. Currency trading had begun in the Los Angeles branch, he added. At home, Commerzbank would probably bring the automotive supply group Boge and clothing manufacturer Ahlers to a stock exchange flotation in the first half of this year. But the placement of shares in the print communications technology group <Linotype GmbH>, to be bought from Allied Signal Inc <ALD.N> would likely come later since several parts of the business had to be consolidated first. Seipp said the purchase price had been "several hundred million dollars." But he gave no further details. Reuter 
GERMAN 2.2 PCT GROWTH AVERAGE SEEN TO 1991

The economy will grow by an average rate of 2.2 pct a year in real terms between now and the end of 1991, Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (WestLB) said in an annual report. A year ago WestLB had forecast average growth of just under three pct for 1986-1990. The 1987 report said gross national product would only expand a real 1.7 pct this year -- below previous expectations -- because of weaker exports. Growth rates will pick up later, however, producing a 2.2 pct increase on average for the five-year period. MORE 
KONTROLLBANK ISSUES 150 MLN MARK PRIVATE EUROBOND

Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG is raising 150 mln marks through a private placement for five years with a 5-1/2 pct coupon and priced at 100-1/4 pct, lead manager Deutsche Girozentrale - Deutsche Kommunalbank said. The bond, guaranteed by Austria, will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. No fees were disclosed. Investors pay for the bond on May 21. The bond pays yearly interest on that day, and expires on that day in 1992. The bond is callable for tax reasons only, with a premium of one pct on May 21, 1988 and 1989, with a premium of 1/2 pct on May 21, 1990, and at par on May 21, 1991. REUTER 
EAST ASIATIC ISSUES 150 MLN MARK EUROBOND

The East Asiatic Company Ltd A/S is raising 150 mln marks through a 5-1/2 pct bullet eurobond priced at 100-1/4, lead manager Commerzbank AG said. Investors will pay for the bond on May 6, and the bond pays annual interest on the same day. The bond matures on May 6, 1992. The bond will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. Fees total two pct, with 1-1/4 points for selling and 3/4 for management and underwriting combined. Listing will be in Frankfurt. REUTER 
NIXDORF EXPANDS BOARD TO INCLUDE FINANCE DIRECTOR

Nixdorf Computer AG <NIXG.F> said its supervisory board has appointed Sven Kado to the new position of deputy member of the managing board, increasing the number of board members to seven. Kado, 42, will be responsible for finance and purchasing. Until now finance has been the responsibility of Klaus Luft, who was named chairman of the board following the death of company founder Heinz Nixdorf in March 1986. Kado, whose appointment takes effect from today, joined Nixdorf in 1984 and was previously the company's head of controlling and purchasing. REUTER 
MARK EUROBOND ISSUES FALL IN SECOND MARCH HALF

The volume of mark eurobond issues fell in the period March 16 to 31 to 900 mln marks from 1.37 billion in the period March 1 to 15, the Bundesbank said. Issues comprised three bonds, including two fixed-interest bonds totaling 700 mln marks and one equity warrant bond totaling 200 mln marks. In addition, one Australian dollar bond was issued totaling 220 mln dlrs, with a portion of interest and principal payments to be met in marks. REUTER 
VW'S CREDIT BANK SUBSIDIARY OPTIMISTIC FOR 1987

V.A.G. Kredit Bank GmbH, the credit bank subsidiary of Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, said it was optimistic for 1987 after raising turnover and balance sheet total in 1986. V.A.G., Which finances the purchase of new and used cars for VW customers, said 1986 profits met expectations but gave no details. Financing turnover rose by 4.2 billion marks to 24.4 billion in 1986. Balance sheet total increased by 228 mln marks to 2.84 billion. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TOMORROW

The Bundesbank will not hold a press conference after its regular fortnightly council meeting tomorrow, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. Bundesbank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger will chair the meeting, as president Karl Otto Poehl has a private engagement. The next meeting is scheduled for April 16. REUTER 
GERMAN BOURSE TURNOVER FOR FIRST QUARTER DETAILED

Share and bond turnover on all eight West German bourses in the first 1987 quarter was valued at 483.4 billion marks, according to the new method of calculating turnover, the Association of German bourses said in a statement. The statement, however, did not give figures on the total number of share and bond units transacted. While shares posted a turnover worth 187.9 billion marks, bond turnover was 295.4 billion marks. No comparative figures were available because of the new method of calculation. In March, share and bond turnover rose 28 pct to 181.1 billion marks from the previous month, reversing the sharp turnover drop in February. Average daily turnover rose to 8.2 billion marks against 7.0 billion in February. Bond turnover jumped 33 pct to 113.3 billion marks in March, giving an average transaction value of 455,000 marks each on the total 249,000 transactions. More than 90 pct of the turnover was in public authority bonds. Share turnover rose 22 pct to 67.8 billion marks. With 1.5 mln deals, share transactions averaged 45,000 marks each. German shares accounted for Nearly 80 pct of share turnover. Foreign shares took up over eight pct and domestic and foreign options, about 12 pct. Deutsche Bank <DBKG.F> was the most traded share in March, with 4.7 billion marks worth changing hands. Siemens <SIEG.F> was next with 4.5 billion marks, Bayer <BAYG.F> 4.0 billion, Volkswagen <VOWG.F> 3.4 billion, Daimler-Benz <DAIG.F> 3.4 billion, Veba <VEBG.F> 2.4 billion, Dresdner Bank <DRSD.F> 2.0 billion, Hoechst <HFAG.F> 2.0 billion, BASF <BASF.F> 1.8 billion and AEG AG <AEGG.F> 1.5 billion. Trading in these 10 shares accounted for 44 pct of total share turnover. REUTER 
 German February industrial output rises 3.2 pct (January fall 3.4 pct) - official



GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German industrial production, seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in February after a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, the Economics Ministry said. The ministry had originally estimated that industrial production fell 3.0 pct in January. The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by just under one percentage point next month when the March figure is released, a ministry statement said. The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at a provisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and 104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the January and December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively. In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7, producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct. The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct increase in construction output compared with January, when production in many industrial sectors was depressed by unusually severe winter weather. Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise in production in February compared with January. But energy sector output fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct. The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to be a better guide to trends, said output in January and February together fell around two pct against November and December. The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct in January/February against November/December due to the cold January weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct and mining output 10 pct. Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct in January/February compared with November/December. Within this sector, the output of both basic products and of food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production of capital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods was unchanged. Compared with the same months of 1986, industrial production in January and February 1987 fell 1-1/2 pct, the ministry said. Manufacturing industry output fell one pct, with output of basic products down three pct, capital goods down one pct and food, tobacco and alcohol production 1-1/2 pct lower. Makers of consumer goods posted a 1-1/2 pct year-on-year rise in the two-month period. In other industrial sectors, mining production fell four pct and construction output 4-1/2 pct. The energy sector saw a slight 1/2 pct rise, the ministry added. REUTER 
SOVIET MINISTER IN GERMAN JOINT VENTURE TALKS

Soviet deputy prime minister Alexei Antonov begins two days of economic talks in Bonn that will include discussions on Soviet-West German joint ventures. Antonov and West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann are heading their respective delegations to the joint commission on economic, scientific and technical cooperation. "The main point of the round will be Soviet economic reforms, new forms of economic cooperation, joint ventures, and cooperation in construction," government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said. REUTER 
LUFTHANSA ORDERS TWO AIRBUS 310S

Deutsche Lufthansa AG <LHAG.F> said it has ordered two Airbus A-310-300s from the Airbus Industrie <ainp.Pa> consortium. The planes will be delivered at the end of 1988 or beginning of 1989, a company statement said. There was no Lufthansa spokesman immediately available to comment on the purchase price or give details about the engines that will power the planes. One of the new A-310s will be used by Lufthansa itself and the other by its <Condor Flugdienst GmbH> charter travel subsidiary, the statement said. The orders bring Lufthansa's purchases of Airbus A-300s and A-310s to a total of 34. REUTER 
GERMAN MARCH COST OF LIVING DATA CONFIRMED

The cost of living was unchanged in March compared with February but stood 0.2 pct lower than in the same month in 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. This confirms provisional figures released at the end of last month. In February the cost of living in West Germany rose 0.1 pct from January to stand 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. REUTER 
SEASONAL STABILISATION SEEN FOR COFFEE PRICES

The onset of cooler weather in Brazil during the southern hemisphere winter is expected to have a stabilising effect on a weak coffee market, West German trade sources said. "The annual fear of frost in Brazil will probably grip the market sometime this month until June or early July," one trader said. The trade believes the International Coffee Organization (ICO) is unlikely to tackle the re-introduction of quotas before its September meeting and until then the market will not see any unexpected sharp moves in either direction. REUTER 
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German industrial production, seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in February after a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, the Economics Ministry said. The ministry had originally estimated that industrial production fell 3.0 pct in January. The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by just under one percentage point next month when the March figure is released, a ministry statement said. The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at a provisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and 104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the January and December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively. In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7, producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct. The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct increase in construction output compared with January, when production in many industrial sectors was depressed by unusually severe winter weather. Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise in production in February compared with January. But energy sector output fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct. The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to be a better guide to trends, said output in January and February together fell around two pct against November and December. The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct in January/February against November/December due to the cold January weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct and mining output 10 pct. Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct in January/February compared with November/December. Within this sector, the output of both basic products and of food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production of capital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods was unchanged. Reuter 
BHF UNIT ISSUES 30 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR EUROBOND

und Frankfurter Bank (BHF) is raising 30 mln Australian dollars through a five-year bullet eurobond with a 14-1/4 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/4, sole manager BHF said. The bond, for BHF Finance Jersey Ltd, pays annual interest on April 28, and investors pay for the bond on the same day. It will mature on that day in 1992. The bond is guaranteed by the parent. Listing is in Luxembourg. Denominations are 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. Yield at issue is 13.89 pct. No fees were stated. REUTER 
IRELAND ISSUES 300 MLN MARK EUROBOND

Ireland is raising 300 mln marks through a 10-year eurobond with a 6-1/2 pct coupon priced at 100-1/2, lead manager Commerzbank AG said. The bond, with a yield at issue of 6.43 pct, will pay annual interest on April 29. Listing is in Frankfurt, the bank said. Investors will pay for the bond on April 29, and the bond matures on the same day in 1997. The bond will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. Fees total 2-1/2 pct, with 1-1/2 points for selling and 1/2 each for management and underwriting. REUTER 
GERMAN MARCH UNADJUSTED JOBLESS FALLS

West German unemployment, unadjusted for seasonal factors, fell to 2.41 mln in March from 2.49 mln in February, the Federal Labour Office said. The total represents 9.6 pct of the workforce compared with 10.0 pct in February. The seasonally adjusted jobless total rose, however, in March to 2.23 mln from 2.18 mln in February, it added. In March last year the unadjusted unemployment total stood at 2.45 mln and represented 9.8 pct of the workforce. Seasonally adjusted unemployment was 2.29 mln. The Federal Labour Office said the number of workers on short time rose by 80,629 to 462,802 and the number of vacancies increased by 15,263 to 180,047. Labour Office President Heinrich Franke, announcing the figures, said the hesitant decline in the unadjusted jobless total reflected continuing bad weather, slack activity in the capital goods sector and structural changes in the coal and steel industry. In a separate statement, the Federal Statistics Office said the rise in the overall number of people in employment had slowed in February. The Office said that, according to estimates for February, 25.7 mln people were in work, a rise of around 240,000 or 0.9 pct compared with the same month in 1986. It noted that in January the year-on-year rise was 250,000 or 1.0 pct and the number in work stood at 25.78 mln. The decline in February compared with January reflected seasonal factors, it added. REUTER 
AEG TO WORK WITH INTEL ON AUTOMATION DEVELOPMENT

AEG AG <AEGG.F> said it will cooperate with Californian-based INTEL Corp <INTC> on the development of automation systems. The cooperation will centre on a new real-time operation system with 32-bit microprocessors for the solution of automation problems in production and processing technology as well as energy supply, AEG said at the Hanover trade fair. AEG will restructure its hardware division from July 1, calling it <MODCOMP GmbH>. It is expected to have sales of 200 mln marks in 1987 and will include AEG's 100 pct takeover of <Modular Computer Systems Inc> and <ATM Computer GmbH>. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG CALLS FOR NEW BRAZIL TALKS WITH BANKS

Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said he will advise Brazil to take up discussions with its commercial bank creditors when he is in Washington for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting next week. He told a news conference ahead of the IMF talks that discussions about developing country debt problems would play an important role on the agenda in Washington. Stoltenberg noted that Brazil had agreed in January to work together with the banks but said this pledge had not yet been fulfilled. After Brazil imposed a moratorium on interest payments on 68 billion dlrs worth of debt in February, Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro sought to involve foreign governments in rescheduling talks with banks. But British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson rebuffed Funaro's bid and said commercial bank loans were a matter for banks and not governments. West German bankers also said then that Brazil should seek an understanding with the IMF. Stoltenberg said in Bonn today that he had already told Funaro that the unilateral moratorium was a mistake. Stoltenberg said that despite progress in some areas, the debt problems of a whole range of countries had recently become more difficult. He said flows from commercial banks had decreased markedly and that the refusal of some highly indebted countries to fulfil their commitments to private creditors or with the IMF was one reason for this. He also said that when debtor countries came up with good, confidence-inspiring policies, commercial banks should react with more flexibility in interest structures, maturities and rescheduling. Many debtor countries had realised that it was not possible to mobilise capital flows, and especially direct investments, without such policies, Stoltenberg said. REUTER 
DATA COORDINATION TO PLAY ROLE AT IMF, STOLTENBERG

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said international coordination of economic and financial policies as well as of economic indicators will be discussed at next week's meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington. Stoltenberg told a news conference it had been decided at last year's Tokyo summit of seven leading industrialised nations that the possibility of such coordination would be reviewed. Progress made by senior government officials in this sphere would be discussed at the IMF meeting and results would later be presented at this year's economic summit in Venice. REUTER 
DATA COORDINATION TO BE DISCUSSEED AT IMF

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said international coordination of economic and financial policies as well as of economic indicators will be discussed at next week's meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington. Stoltenberg told a news conference it had been decided at last year's Tokyo summit of seven leading industrialised nations that the possibility of such coordination would be reviewed. Progress made by senior government officials in this sphere would be discussed at the IMF meeting and results would later be presented at this year's economic summit in Venice. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK GROSS RESERVES RISE AT MARCH CLOSE

The Bundesbank's gross currency reserves rose 300 mln marks in the last week of March to 104.9 billion marks, the Bundesbank said in a statement. At the same time its foreign liabilities rose 100 mln to 22.8 billion, producing a rise in net reserves of 200 mln to 82.2 billion on March 31. The Bundesbank provided banks with liquidity in the fourth March week by disbursing funds in the money market via government-owned banks. Banks took up the Bundesbank's standing offer of treasury bills to place excess liquidity. Banks received more liquidity through routine month-end payments by public authorities as well as expansionary market factors than was lost through the 2.3 billion mark rise in cash in circulation to 122.3 billion, the Bundesbank said. But banks had to draw heavily on the Lombard emergency financing facility due to month-end tightness, borrowing 5.3 billion marks. Overall, banks' holdings at the Bundesbank rose 10.2 billion marks to 58.5 billion at the end of the month, averaging 50.9 billion in the whole of March. The minimum reserve requirement for March, before deduction of banks' cash holdings, was set at 61 billion marks. Public authorities' net holdings at the Bundesbank fell to 2.2 billion marks in the last March week from 4.4 billion the week before. The federal states' holdings fell 2.6 billion to 2.4 billion. The federal government's holdings rose 700 mln marks to 5.1 billion. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EFTA FEARS EC MARKET PLANS

The European Community wants to eliminate all obstacles to free movement of goods, services and people by 1992, a laudable goal that has sent shivers down the spines of its closest trading neighbours. Europe's outsiders -- the six members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other small states -- fear the growing power of the 12 EC member countries, a market of 320 mln people, one and a half times as big as the whole U.S. And as the Community celebrates its 30th anniversary, in non-EC countries from Ankara to Oslo, an attitude is emerging which says, "If you can't beat them, join them." In June 1985, the Community adopted a plan to create an "internal market" without restrictions, which included new goals on everything from tourism to the rules of bank accounting. The plan is so extensive that even the EFTA countries -- Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland -- with decades of close trade ties, find it hard to adopt a joint position. Last month Turkey formally requested EC membership, receiving a polite reply from Brussels that the time was not ripe. In Austria, where its 1955 charter of neutrality forbids joining political alliances, the government is looking for ways to become a "de facto" EC member. And in Norway, where membership was rejected in a 1972 referendum, government officials are wondering whether the political climate has changed. But nowhere has the debate been more existential than in Switzerland, which has resisted all alliances for 700 years. The Swiss are a microcosm of Europe, living geographically in the very heart of Europe and speaking the languages of the three big economies -- Germany, France and Italy. Swiss neutrality, which has kept the country out of the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund, would seem to preclude membership in the Community, given the EC's loose link with the Western defence alliance NATO. But an opinion poll late last year, held in the French-speaking part of the country, showed a majority favoured joining the Community. Since then, government officials have stressed that, while membership was impossible, Switzerland should do everything possible not to be locked out when the trade barriers inside the EC come down. State secretary for foreign trade Franz Blankart, said it is inconceivable the whole Swiss nation -- including the more conservative German-speaking majority -- would vote for membership. But Switzerland must be more than just a "satellite," he said, now that the enlarged Community is extending itself into areas omitted by the founding Treaty of Rome. These areas, including pharmaceutical research and technological development, are the key to the economic future of Switzerland and the Community alike, he adds. "We cannot permit ourselves the luxury of passively following the Community's new dynamic of integration," he says. The Swiss economy ministry has drawn up a detailed analysis of the EC White Paper on the internal market, outlining the Swiss response to each point. While some refer to a collective EFTA stance, officials admit that on many issues Switzerland may have act alone. The new EC plans on transport, for example, would have a severe impact on Switzerland and Austria, whose roads carry most of the traffic between Italy and its EC partners. But rules such as the volume of petrol buses are allowed to carry across a border have much less importance to Sweden or Finland. Switzerland wants to work out ways to help people crossing its borders with West Germany, France and Italy. But it is afraid the liberal border controls Denmark, an EC member, has with the non-EC Nordic countries might pose a threat to security. And pin the fields of banking and insurance -- the very lifeblood of Switzerland's service sector -- Swiss interests could prove directly opposite to its EFTA partners with their pppppppnarrow and tightly protected financial markets. The biggest danger ahead, EFTA members have said, would be that their divided interests might leave the EC free to set whatever guidelines and standards it wanted and force them on other European states that wanted to trade. REUTER 
VW PLANS MAJOR NEW PLANT IN CHINA

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, VW, plans to construct a major new car plant in China, a company spokesman said. However, he added that discussions with China about the plant were still at an early stage. It would have an annual capacity of up to 300,000 vehicles but would not be built until the 1990's at the earliest. VW already has a large joint venture with the Chinese authorities under which it produces the Santana model in Shanghai. The spokesman said the Shanghai plant should have an annual capacity of 30,000 cars by the end of next year. So far 15,000 Santanas have been produced since output began in 1985. The VW spokesman said no decision had yet been made about the type of car which could be built at the new plant. However, company officials have said VW plans to bring out a cheaper car than the Santana for the Chinese market and which will be aimed at private owners. The Santana is generally used by government officials and visiting foreigners or as taxis for tourists. No details were given about the extent of investment in the new plant and it was not clear where it would be built. Reuter 
INSTITUTE SEES W.GERMAN OUTPUT FALL IN 1987

Production in the manufactured goods industry has been falling since mid-1986 and will decline by between one and two pct this year after a 2.5 pct increase in 1986, the Ifo economic institute said. An Ifo report said recessionary influences were affecting the engineering industry particularly. It saw a decline of two to three pct in this sector after a 5.2 pct rise in 1986. Orders, especially from abroad, were also falling sharply for capital goods in the electronics sector, it added. Ifo also predicted stagnation in the automobile industry in 1987 after a particularly successful 1986 when production rose 5.1 pct. Chemical industry production, which fell by 0.9 pct last year, was likely to stagnate or decline by one pct in 1987. This sector suffered from slack demand from abroad and from low domestic consumption. REUTER 
CENTRE-RIGHT WIN GERMANY'S HESSE STATE POLL

West Germany's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their liberal Free Democrat Party (FDP) allies today won control of the central state of Hesse in state elections, toppling the Social Democrats (SPD) who had governed the state for over 40 years. The CDU/FDP coalition will have a two-seat majority over the SPD and their Greens party allies in the new state parliament. Earlier predictions forecast a hung parliament. The poll was the first major test of public opinion since national elections last January returned Chancellor Helmut Kohl's CDU-dominated coalition to power in Bonn. Political commentators said the result was a debacle for the SPD, which has been split by disagreements over the party's future direction. It was also a rebuff for a unique coalition the SPD had formed in Hesse with the anti-nuclear Greens movement, which left-wing Social Democrats said could provide a model for a similar alliance at federal level. Bonn Environment Minister Walter Wallmann, the CDU's victorious candidate for the state premiership, told reporters "Many traditional SPD voters voted for us because they did not want an SPD that was under the influence of the Greens." REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SUPERVISOR CALLS FOR WIDER REGULATION

West German banking regulations must be expanded to cover off-balance sheet risks arising from new financing forms, Federal Banking Supervisory Office President Wolfgang Kuntze said. Kuntze told bankers at a reception that deals for hedging price risks are not covered by current supervisory rules. Such deals could be used for speculation and do not have to be disclosed. Kuntze also said it must be considered whether banks can continue not to set shareholders' equity and reserves against their own holdings of securities. Since early 1984, banks have been limited to lending 18 times shareholders' equity and reserves on a consolidated basis and Bundesbank officials have said that interest rate and currency swaps and currency options are under scrutiny. Authorities favour reinterpreting the banking law to fit present circumstances in order to avoid the long parliamentary political process of changing it, banking sources said. Kuntze said solutions to the problem of banking supervision can be found without having to change the law again. The risk structure in banking is moving away from the model on which banking supervisory rules are based, Kuntze said. Banking supervisors are still firemen with a safety net but the safety net has become a little too small, he said. Kuntze declined to detail possible changes to banking regulations, as these are still the subject of discussions between the Supervisory Office and the Bundesbank. He said he sees no chance in the foreseeable future for an international harmonisation of supervisory law and the German supervisory office would not wait for such harmonisation. Nor would it get involved in international competition on minimal regulatory standards in order to shield banks from competitive disadvantages, he said. REUTER 
 German February capital account deficit 7.53 billion marks vs Jan 11.91 billion surplus - Bundesbank



GERMAN CAPITAL ACCOUNT IN DEFICIT IN FEBRUARY

West Germany recorded a net outflow of 7.53 billion marks on the February capital account, combining long and short term capital flows, compared with a net inflow of 11.91 billion marks in January, the Bundesbank said. This compared with a net outflow of 3.51 billion marks in February 1986, the Bundesbank said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN 1986 OIL MEALS, CAKES USE UP

West German consumption of oilmeals and oil cakes last year rose by 2.4 pct to 6.3 mln tonnes, the agriculture ministry said. It said in a statement the increase was exclusively due to sharply higher use of rape products, which went up by 8.9 pct to 1.08 mln tonnes. Use of soy products dropped 7.2 pct to 2.89 mln tonnes, it added. REUTER 
VW CURRENCY DEPARTMENT FORMER HEAD ARRESTED

The former chief of foreign exchange at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> has been arrested in connection with a scandal which may have cost the car maker a quarter of a billion dlrs, the chief state prosecutor Carl Hermann Retemeyer said. He told Reuters that Burkhard "Bobby" Junger was arrested yesterday for suspected embezzlement. "There is reason to believe that Junger could have evaded justice, and investigating magistrates therefore asked for his arrest," Retemeyer said. VW fired Junger in March, after news emerged of the suspected foreign exchange swindle. In January the board gave him leave of absence. Six other people have been suspended. VW said last month computer programs were erased and documents faked in the possible fraud, in which it believes transactions meant to protect it against foreign currency losses were not completed. Retemeyer said "We are still investigating a larger circle of people, among them Frankfurt currency dealers" He would not comment whether other arrests could be expected. The possible fraud resulted in a major management shake-up with the resignation of Rolf Selowsky, management board member in charge of finance, who assumed managerial responsibility for the affair. Retemeyer said last month he wanted to question Frankfurt-based money broker Joachim Schmidt, who may be able to give more details. REUTER 
VW CURRENCY DEPARTMENT FORMER HEAD ARRESTED

The former chief of foreign exchange at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> has been arrested in connection with a scandal which may have cost the car maker a quarter of a billion dlrs, the chief state prosecutor Carl Hermann Retemeyer said. He told Reuters that Burkhard "Bobby" Junger was arrested yesterday for suspected embezzlement. "There is reason to believe that Junger could have evaded justice, and investigating magistrates therefore asked for his arrest," Retemeyer said. VW fired Junger in March, after news emerged of the suspected foreign exchange swindle. In January the board gave him leave of absence. Six other people have been suspended. VW said last month computer programs were erased and documents faked in the possible fraud, in which it believes transactions meant to protect it against foreign currency losses were not completed. Retemeyer said, "We are still investigating a larger circle of people, among them Frankfurt currency dealers" He would not comment whether other arrests could be expected. The possible fraud resulted in a major management shake-up with the resignation of Rolf Selowsky, management board member in charge of finance, who assumed managerial responsibility for the affair. Retemeyer said last month he wanted to question Frankfurt-based money broker Joachim Schmidt, who may be able to give more details. Reuter 
PALM OIL OUTPUT SEEN DROPPING SHARPLY - OIL WORLD

Malaysian and Indonesian palm oil production is likely to drop sharply this year, due to lower yields, the Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said. The publication expects total Malaysian output during Jan/Sept 1987 to decline by eight pct to 3.05 mln tonnes. For East Malaysia, it put production during the period at 297,000 tonnes after 312,000 a year earlier and for West Malaysia 2.75 mln compared with just over 3.0 mln during Jan/Sept 1986. It said new plantings had slowed markedly in both countries, but the effects of this will not be felt until 1988-90. Above normal yields during recent years resulted in trees reacting to the stress by changing the sex ratio to more male inflorescences and/or aborting more female, Oil World said. Yields per hectare are also likely to be adversely affected this year by insufficient rain up to 25 months ago. This could especially affect trees in West Malaysia during April/June, while in East Malaysia the impact will be in February/April and July/Dec, and in Indonesia July/Sept. Last year's cut in fertilizer use will hit this year's yields and bigger effects are expected within the next three years, Oil World said without elaborating. Opening stocks in West Malaysia at the start of this year were put at only 565,000 tonnes compared with 914,000 in January 1986, Oil World said. West Malaysian net exports are therefore expected to drop 500,000 tonnes to 2.54 mln during Jan/Sept, while those of East Malaysia are likely to decline by 10 pct to 280,000 tonnes. Indonesian palm oil production is forecast to fall about eight pct during Jan/May, but to rise from June on. Overall Indonesian output during Jan/Sept is forecast to rise three pct to 933,000 tonnes. Indonesian stocks as of April 1, however, are put at only 65,000 tonnes compared with 160,000 a year ago. Indonesian export commitments and domestic requirements are both running at high levels, Oil World said, and it expects the country's imports to reach a record 110,000 tonnes during Jan/Sept. The bulk of this will arrive during Feb/May, ahead of the April elections and the religious Ramadan festival throughout May, it said. Indonesian net exports, therefore, may fall by 29 pct to 350,000 tonnes, Oil World said. The possibility that recent Indonesian palm oil purchases will not actually enter the country but be transshipped to other countries to fulfill Indonesia's export orders cannot be ruled out, it said. REUTER 
GERMAN LONG-TERM CAPITAL INFLOW SLUMPS IN FEBRUARY

The inflow of long-term capital into West Germany slumped to 606 mln marks in February from January's record 11.91 billion, with foreign purchases of German bonds and shares declining sharply, the Bundesbank said. While foreigners bought only four billion marks worth of German bonds in February after 13 billion in January, they sold a net 500 mln marks in shares and promissory notes of public authorities after sales worth 300 mln in January. With German investors' purchases of foreign securities steady around 1.3 billion marks, only 2.2 billion marks were imported through securities transactions, after 11.2 billion. Direct investment abroad led to a capital outflow of 1.60 billion marks in February after 2.83 billion in January. There was a deficit of 8.14 billion marks in the short-term capital account after a surplus of 194 mln in January. Banks alone exported some 8.6 billion marks in funds while domestic companies increased their short-term financial assets abroad by 700 mln. But public authorities received some one billion marks from abroad, the Bundesbank said in a statement. Combining long and short term capital outflows, West Germany recorded a net outflow of 7.53 billion marks in February against a net inflow of 11.91 billion in January. The Bundesbank confirmed the German trade surplus widened to 10.45 billion marks in February from January's 7.20 billion. Taking the two months together the seasonally adjusted surplus was slightly below the figure for the previous two. In terms of current as well as constant prices, the narrowing of the surplus was progressing, the bank said. Germany's current account surplus widened to 6.63 billion marks in February from 4.79 billion in January, but was down on the 7.26 billion figure for February 1986. Seasonally adjusted, the February current account surplus narrowed against January. While exports in February fell a half pct against the same month last year, imports fell 10-1/2 pct largely due to the drop in prices. Exports grew three pct in volume and imports two pct. In the balance of services, a fall in net investment income led to a 300 mln mark deficit in February after a 300 mln mark surplus in January. The deficit in transfer payments widened to 3.70 billion marks from 2.69 billion, largely due to a sharp jump to 2.3 billion marks from 200 mln in payments to the European Community budget. REUTER 
GERMAN ENGINEERING WAGE-ROUND TALKS BREAK DOWN

Talks between employers and unions in the West German engineering industry over pay and working hours broke down without result late last night, an official from the IG-Metall union said. IG-Metall, Western Europe's largest union, is reviving its campaign for a 35-hour working week and is demanding a five pct pay increase. Strikes for a 35-hour week in 1984 brought West Germany's automobile industry virtually to a standstill. The result of the 1984 campaign was a compromise reduction in working hours to 38.5 from 40. The talks which broke down yesterday were in the key North Wuerttemberg/North Baden area, which generally sets the trend for the rest of the country. IG-Metall official Ernst Eisenmann, speaking last night, blamed the failure of the negotiations on the employers. He said they had been uncompromising on the question of the shorter week. Hans-Peter Stihl, negotiating for the employers, said any plan to reduce working hours gradually to 35 hours was unacceptable. The employers have not made an official offer on cutting the working week, but sources involved in the negotiations say that they are working on the basis of a possible half-hour reduction from next year and a pay increase of 2.7 pct in 1987 and of 1.5 pct in 1988. The Union will propose that the negotiations be officially declared a failure and then a process of arbitration is likely. IG-Metall has said that cutting the working week will create jobs in West Germany where more than two mln people are unemployed. IG-Metall itself has about 2.5 mln members. IG-Metall has already been staging a series of "warning strikes" to press home demands for the 35-hour week. Yesterday, 23,000 engineering workers struck at 90 plants for one to two hours, according to an IG-Metall statement. Among the strikers were 4,000 at a Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> plant in Bremen, and 3,100 at Ford Motor Co's <F> Ford-Werke AG plant in Saarlouis. REUTER 
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT SEEN STAGNATING

The number of workers employed in the West German industrial sector stagnated in the last quarter of 1986 as a 50,000 increase in overall employment benefited only the services branch, the DIW economic institute said. A DIW report added the general downturn in the economy since last Autumn had had a negative effect on the willingness of firms to take on workers. It referred to a marked downturn in the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector. New orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostly fallen or stagnated in recent months, but data for February finally showed a reversal of the trend, with a 1.9 pct rise. REUTER 
OECD URGES GERMANY TO STEP UP AID

West Germany should take steps to increase its official development assistance, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said. A report by the organisation's Development Assistance Committee (DAC) said German aid levels had shown only a moderate increase in real terms in recent years, adding that there was a risk that growth over the next few years might slow further. German aid, estimated at around four billion dlrs in 1986, represents 0.46 pct of the country's GNP. This is above the DAC's average of 0.36 pct, but might decline if corrective measures were not taken, the report said. REUTER 
NO SPECIAL CHECKS AT GERMAN BANKS BECAUSE OF VW

Banking supervisory authorities are not carrying out any special checks at banks in the wake of the currency fraud scandal at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, a spokesman for the Hesse regional state central bank, LZB, said. But inspectors are paying particular attention to foreign exchange matters in their routine checks at banks, he said in answer to enquiries. There is no evidence rules were broken. The LZB spokesman was commenting on press reports that banks had "parked" open currency positions for short periods with VW to circumvent regulations limiting the size of open currency positions that can be carried by banks overnight. The press allegations emerged after VW said it may have lost 480 mln marks as a result of a possible currency fraud. LZBs are regional branches of the Bundesbank. Their inspectors also act for the Federal Banking Supervisory Office in West Berlin, which regulates banking in West Germany. Following the 1974 Herstatt bank crash on currency speculation, West Germany limited a bank's total open positions overnight to 30 pct of shareholders' equity and reserves. German press reports have said some banks circumvented this rule by selling excess positions to VW, then repurchasing them. The banking regulations only cover banks. Company foreign exchange activities are not subject to the banking regulators. The LZB spokesman said there were no concrete signs that the regulations had been broken, and it would be irresponsible to instigate a special check just on the basis of the reports. The LZBs receive monthly balance sheet statistics from banks in their areas, which they check, and they also routinely inspect all banks in greater detail over longer periods. But LZB officials said it would be hard for inspectors to detect a breach of these rules as they do not check companies and therefore would not see both sides of any parking deal. "If the managements of the banks have not spotted them, it will be even harder for our inspectors," said one official. It would be up to the public prosecutors to order special checks on suspicion of breaches of these regulations, they said. Prosecutors in Brunswick are already investigating the VW currency scandal, and have ordered the arrest of VW's former chief foreign exchange dealer. Breaches of the Banking Law in this way can be punished by a 100,000 mark fine for the dealers involved, and in extreme cases by removal of the managers if their active involvement is proved. REUTER 
EC COMMISSION DETAILS SUGAR TENDER

The EC Commission confirmed it granted export licences for 118,350 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum export rebate of 46.496 European Currency Units (ECUs) per 100 kilos. Out of this, traders in France received 34,500 tonnes, in the U.K. 37,800, in West-Germany 20,000, in Belgium 18,500, in Spain 5,800 and in Denmark 1,750 tonnes. REUTER 
GERMAN INVESTMENTS ABROAD FALL IN 1986

West Germany's total net direct investments abroad fell to 11.2 billion marks in 1986 from 13.6 billion in 1985, but investments in developing countries rose to 683 mln marks from 358 mln, the Economics Ministry said. Foreign investments in West Germany were a net 5.8 billion marks in 1986, up from 3.6 billion in 1985, with higher European investments largely responsible for this increase. The ministry noted that, despite last year's rise in West German investments in developing countries, the 1986 level was below the investments of over two billion marks seen in 1981, 1982 and 1983. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKERS' REMARKS REVIVE TALK OF RATE CUT

Remarks by two leading central bankers sparked renewed speculation in financial markets that a cut in the West German three pct discount rate may be under discussion, currency dealers said. Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler said in a speech that monetary growth resulting from speculative capital inflows required cuts in interest rates. Separately, West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss told journalists that the discount rate could fall below its lowest ever point of 2.75 pct. He made clear that he was not making a forecast on interest rates, however. Currency dealers here and in the Far East said the dollar gained slight background support from the speculation. But German dealers noted that the Bundesbank kept the 3.80 pct rate unchanged at which it offered liquidity to the money market this week, dashing some expectations that it may either offer lower fixed rate money or offer a reduced minimum rate and let the strength of banks' demands set the allocation rate. It allocated 6.1 billion marks in new liquidity, much less than the 14.9 billion leaving the market as a prior pact expired. This further weakened sentiment the Bundesbank could move to a more accommodative monetary stance, dealers said. Koehler said in a speech in Surrey, England, speculative capital inflows may cause monetary growth, regardless of whether central banks intervened or exchange rates fell. "In other words, the monetary policy measures required are different from -- and sometimes diametrically opposed to -- those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result of mounting economic activity." Though Koehler was known to be the most liberal of the generally monetarist Bundesbank board, his comments marked the first time cuts in rates had been concretely suggested as a counterpoint to overly strong monetary growth, dealers said. REUTER^M 
CONTI SHARES OPEN HIGHER ON GOOD NEW TYRE REVIEWS

Shares of Continental Gummi-Werke AG <CONG.F> opened eight marks stronger in an otherwise mixed Frankfurt market and dealers attributed the trend to favourable press reports about a new tyre system the company is developing. The shares later eased to 344.50. A spokesman for the West German Automobile Association, ADAC, said the ADAC magazine in a recent edition described advantages of the new tyre. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN BEET PLANTINGS DELAYED THREE WEEKS

Unseasonal cold weather has delayed sugar beet plantings in West Germany by up to three weeks, the agriculture ministry said. A ministry spokesman said in some central areas, especially in the Rhineland, farmers have taken advantage of warmer weather and started plantings in the past two days. West German planting intentions this year are put at 381,000 hectares, down from 390,500 ha last year, he said, adding that the 1980/1985 average was 405,000 ha. REUTER 
WEST GERMANY'S THESING ISSUES 10 MLN SFR BOND

<Thesing-Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH> of Coesfeld, West Germany, is issuing a 10 mln Swiss franc eight year bond with an indicated 6-3/8 pct coupon and par issue price, joint lead managers Fintrelex SA and E.Gutzwiller und Cie, Banquiers said. Subscription is from May 7 until May 13. The issue is guaranteed by Schallplattentruhe A. Thesing GmbH und Co Kommanditgesellschaft, Martin Thesing Handelsgesellschaft. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKER CALLS FOR MORE TAX CUTS

A further cut in West German taxes to overcome the current weakness of the domestic economy has been called for by Thomas Wegscheider, management board chairman of Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft AG. He said in an interview due in tomorrow's Die Welt newspaper that tax cuts already decided by the government should be expanded by implementation of the "Stability Law," which allows tax cuts of up to 10 pct for a limited period. Wegscheider also said a temporary rise in state borrowing resulting from such cuts would be tolerable, according to excerpts of his remarks released early by Die Welt. In line with a pledge made at the Paris monetary conference in February, the government announced in March that 5.2 billion marks worth of tax cuts would be added on to reductions of some nine billion marks already scheduled for next year. Wegscheider said the Bundesbank should pursue its policies aimed at lower interest rates and said a reduction in money market rates could encourage private capital market investment. Earlier today the Bundesbank's vice-president Helmut Schlesinger said the central bank saw no current reason to change its monetary course. REUTER 
W.GERMAN COCOA GRIND UP 2.9 PCT IN FIRST QUARTER

The West German cocoa grind rose 2.9 pct to 55,190 tonnes in the first quarter of 1987 from 53,643 tonnes in the same quarter of of 1986, the Bonn-based Confectionery Industry Association said in a statement. REUTER TAW 
GERMAN CAPITAL MARKET LIBERALIZATION STALLS

West Germany's capital market liberalization program has stalled and bankers are worried it may take years for further reforms to be completed. Liberalization got underway in May 1985 when foreign banks received Bundesbank permission to lead-manage mark eurobonds. Further moves included introduction of mark-denominated certificates of deposit last year. But other changes, including revisions in the domestic options market and introduction of futures contracts, need lengthy statutory changes and this may take years, bankers and dealers say. Deutsche Bank AG co-chairman F. Wilhelm Christians called last week for an enlargement of current capital market instruments to include instruments already standard abroad. He said these are needed especially when prices fall, citing declines in West German share prices in the first two months of this year when stock indices fell about 20 pct. Others are more blunt. Securities dealers say the lack of viable hedging instruments for shares and bonds makes trading in domestic markets too risky. "We need a stock index futures contract, and a futures contract for recent government bonds," one dealer said. West Germany now has options contracts on about five pct of shares and bonds traded on exchanges here, covering only about 30 pct of the average traded volume, stock market sources said. Options can only be written on the original 14 bonds selected when bond options were introduced last April. The most recent bond on the list was issued in 1985. There are no futures exchanges in West Germany. German banks may participate in futures exchanges through branches abroad but these are at least outwardly subject to stringent West German rules requiring that every contract be secured on a one-by-one basis with a separate hedge, to prevent speculation. Another problem is a lack of liquidity in the existing markets, owing to lack of private investor participation. Private individuals and corporations do not engage in options trading now due to West Germany's civil and exchange laws, which define losses made in futures and options business as gambling losses, which investors need not pay back. Options business has been hurt by lack of liquidity from pension funds, which currently are forbidden to invest in these instruments. But they are to be allowed to enter the business soon as the European Community begins to harmonize rules governing funds. Manfred Laux, general secretary of the West German mutual funds association in Frankfurt, said harmonized rules are to be adopted by October 1, 1989 at the latest. The push to adopt new instruments has not been great in the past, owing to wide-spread belief they are speculative, which gives them a bad name in West Germany. But pressure for their introduction here is growing. The start-up of a Swiss futures exchange has some bankers considering if a similar exchange would be useful in West Germany. They say that without innovations, some business could drift to London, which the Bundesbank vehemently opposes. An official at the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) said the exchange currently has no plans to introduce more mark-denominated contracts beyond the existing mark-dollar contract. But he said the exchange is studying the feasibility of other contracts, including one for three-month mark interest rates and possibly a government bond contract. A Bundesbank capital markets expert said the Bundesbank has no objections to hedging through futures but any liberalization in that sector is still in the early planning stages after earlier talks ended two years ago. Considerations about the futures business have been drawn out because of the large number of participants involved in talks. They include parliament, the Bundesbank, the Federal Banking Supervisory Board, eight West German stock exchanges and their governing states, and the four West German banking associations. Beyond options and futures, other changes being suggested include replacing the federal government's current bond consortium with an auction procedure similar to one being considered in the U.K. And already in practice in the U.S. This would upset the existing market order providing German and foreign banks in the consortium with fixed quotas but it would eliminate the misallocations some bankers say presently arise within the fixed consortium quota system. In addition, some bankers would like the method of bond trading on the West German stock exchange changed to a system of continuous price-setting from the current system in which every bond price is fixed once a day. This would make trading more transparent if it reduced the proportion of off-floor interbank bond trading, now some 90 pct of the volume of bond transactions here, the bankers say. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN COCOA GRINDINGS WITHIN EXPECTATIONS

West German first quarter cocoa grindings, which rose 2.9 pct from the same 1986 quarter, were within expectations, trade sources said. They described the results, announced Saturday, as normal and unspectacular, considering that the grind in the fourth quarter was rather high and some was carried over into the first quarter. Grindings rose to 55,190 tonnes from 53,643 in the first 1986 quarter. A spokesman for the Confectionery Industry Association said that West German grindings are expected to stay relatively high in comparison to other West European countries. REUTER 
INSTITUTES DIVIDED ON OUTLOOK FOR GERMAN ECONOMY

The five leading West German economic research institutes have failed to agree about how strongly the domestic economy will expand this year but revised down forecasts contained in a report published six months ago. The three research groups of Kiel, Hamburg and Essen predicted in the institutes' joint spring report that gross national product (GNP) would rise by two pct in 1987, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986. The five institutes had jointly forecast three pct 1987 growth in October last year. Taking a dissenting view, the DIW institute of West Berlin and Munich's Ifo institute predicted only one pct 1987 growth. The joint report said that the estimates of economic development made by the DIW and Ifo were "markedly less favourable" than those of the other three. The DIW and Ifo forecast the economy would pick up after a slow start to the year. "In the second half of 1987 there will, however, only be a weak upward movement," they said. The two institutes said external economic factors which were currently damaging exports and pushing up imports would dominate the economic environment throughout the year. They saw exports falling by a real 2-1/2 pct in 1987 and predicted no marked improvement in the course of the year. The other three institutes, however, wrote: "The decline in demand and production (seen) in the winter months does not indicate the beginning of a cyclical downswing." They said the sharp rise of the mark had led to corporate uncertainty and companies had not carried out investment plans. But they expected that many investments had not been cancelled but only put off. "It can be presumed that the braking actions (on the economy) will diminish markedly this year." They added: "The domestic prerequisites for a continuation of the economic uptrend are still favourable." These three institutes said diminishing external burdens combined with favourable domestic conditions meant an upturn in demand and production could be expected by the spring. However, this projection was clouded by risks including the further development of the mark against the dollar. Contrary to the DIW and Ifo, the three institutes said that while exports would continue to be the weak point of the economy in 1987, "there is good reason to believe that exports will soon bottom out and that a slight rise will emerge during the course of the year." They predicted an overall 0.5 pct fall in exports in 1987, the same as in 1986. The three more positive institutes saw private consumption rising by four pct in 1987, compared with 4.2 pct in 1986, while DIW and Ifo predicted a three pct increase. They saw the climate for equipment investment improving but predicted only a rise of four pct in 1987 against 4.6 pct in 1986. Ifo and DIW saw these investments rising by only two pct. All the institutes predicted only a slight decline in unemployment. The Kiel, Hamburg and Essen institutes said the jobless total would average 2.17 mln in 1987 compared with 2.23 mln in 1986 and predicted a rise in the number of people in work of about 200,000. These three institutes said new jobs would be created mainly in the private services sector and also by the state in the context of job creation measures. The construction industry was likely to engage new workers for the first time since 1980 but they predicted either no rise in employment in the manufactured goods industry or only a slight expansion. The DIW and Ifo said rises in employment would occur only in the tertiary sector, while "the number employed in the manufacturing industry will decline." The DIW and Ifo said unemployment would only decline to 2.20 mln in 1987 from 2.23 mln in 1986. They saw the current account surplus falling in 1987 to 58 billion marks from 78 billion in 1986. The other three saw a current account surplus in 1987 of at least 60 billion marks and predicted that the trade surplus would fall to only around 100 billion marks from 112 billion in 1986. The institutes agreed that consumer prices would start to rise in 1987, after they declined in 1986, and all five predicted an average increase over the year of 0.5 pct. REUTER 
VICTORIA STATE BANK ISSUES 50 MLN AUS DLR EUROBOND

The State Bank of Victoria is raising 50 mln Australian dlrs through a three-year bullet eurobond at 14-1/2 pct and priced at 101-3/8, lead and sole manager Commerzbank AG said. The bond is due on May 15, 1990 and interest is paid on that date annually. Payment date is also May 15. Denominations are 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and listing is in London. Fees total 1-1/2 pct, with a half-point for management and underwriting and one point for selling. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN INSTITUTES CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS

The five leading West German economic research institutes said the government should do more to stimulate economic growth and called for early introduction of tax cuts planned for 1990. In their joint spring report the institutes were divided about 1987 growth forecasts, with three predicting two pct expansion and the other two only one pct growth. Gross national product grew 2.4 pct last year. But the report said all the institutes believed that "more must be done to produce dynamic growth so that more additional jobs can be created." The institutes said any step which improved basic economic conditions should be taken as quickly as possible. "From this point of view, the tax reform planned for 1990 should be brought forward." The government plans gross tax reductions of 44 billion marks as part of the major tax reform. The net tax relief from the tax reform will amount to 25 billion marks. However, the institutes criticised the government, not only for the timing of the reform, but also because the question of its financing had been left open. The government has not specified how the remaining 19 billion marks of the tax reduction package will be paid for, though it has said it wants to cut state subsidies. The institutes said this lack of clarity from Bonn had caused uncertainty among companies and households as to what exactly they would receive from the tax reform and urged a quick decision from the government. They also said the government should reduce tax preferences, which would simplify the fiscal system, urged a restriction of state spending and called for no increase in value-added tax. The institutes also criticised Bonn for increasing subsidies at a time further reductions had been pledged. They referred specifically to a doubling of special writedowns for small and medium sized companies announced in a package of tax adjustments planned for 1988 and described this as an increase in subsidies. The institutes said total subsidies, including tax preferences, had reached 80 billion marks in 1985 and risen further since then. Given the scope of these subsidies, it should be possible "despite ... Major political difficulties" to finance the tax reform by cutting state handouts. The institutes said that if the government raised value added tax or other indirect taxes a large portion of the positive effects resulting from lower taxes would be lost. The report also noted that the government was progressing only slowly with its plans to privatise state companies and said more deregulation was needed. The government had to aim for more competition, it said. REUTER 
GERMAN METALWORKERS' WAGE TALKS BEGIN WEDNESDAY

Negotiations scheduled between the metalworkers' IG Metall union and employers to resolve an impasse over a new contract will start on Wednesday, the union said in a statement. IG Metall is demanding a 35-hour week, with a parallel increase in wages of five pct. Employers Gesamtmetall have offered a half-hour shortening in the current working week, to 38 hours, and an initial rise of 2.8 pct. IG Metall, under newly-elected leader Franz Steinkuehler, proposed the talks on Thursday, after regional negotiations in the northern part of the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg collapsed. REUTER 
BANGEMANN REJECTS CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS

West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann indirectly rejected a call from the country's leading economic research institutes for early introduction of a major tax reform involving gross tax cuts of 44 billion marks. In a statement reacting to the five institutes' joint spring report, Bangemann said that as far as the call for bringing forward the 1990 tax reform was concerned -- "The government points out that the positive effects for growth of its policy of consolidation (cutting the budget deficit) must not be allowed to be endangered." Bangemann also recalled that the scope of tax cuts planned for 1988 had already been increased. Three institutes predicted two pct economic growth in 1987, with exports falling by 0.5 pct. The other two saw only one pct growth and said exports would fall 2.5 pct. Bangemann said "The government, agreeing with the majority, sees no reason for the extraordinarily pessimistic estimate for exports expressed by the minority." He said there was reason to believe that export demand would start to rise in the course of the year, partly because of a further increase in world trade. REUTER 
INSTITUTES SEE NO WEST GERMAN RECESSION

The five leading West German economic research institutes, which have revised down their forecasts for 1987 growth, do not predict a recession in West Germany, their spokesman, Hans-Juergen Schmahl said. The institutes were divided in their spring report on forecasts for 1987, with three predicting two pct growth and two seeing only one pct expansion. Growth was 2.4 pct in 1986. Schmahl, presenting the report at a news conference, said, "None of the institutes reckons with a recession or with the beginning of a recession." He added, however, that exports remained the weak point of the economy . Schmahl also said West Germany would have to expect further encroachments of foreign goods onto its markets. Arthur Krumper of Munich's Ifo institute, which with the DIW of West Berlin had presented the more pessimistic view of the economy, said, "The braking effects (on the economy) produced by external factors will remain considerable for most of the year." REUTER 
DEUTSCHE TEXACO NOT AFFECTED BY LEGAL DISPUTE

Deutsche Texaco AG, Texaco Inc's <TX.N> 99.15 pct-owned West German subsidiary, will not be affected by the legal dispute with the Pennzoil Company <PZL.N>, managing board chairman Armin Schram said. Schram told a news conference that Deutsche Texaco's business will not be affected by the "legal proceedings in the U.S. Our liquidity is more than sufficient to guarantee supplies of crude oil and products to refineries and customers." Schram said West German law prohibited the parent company from "touching our basic capital of 500 mln marks and reserves of 81 mln." REUTER 
GERMAN INSTITUTES WARN ON MONEY SUPPLY

Four of West Germany's five leading economic research institutes warned that excessive monetary growth threatened a resurgence of inflation. But in a dissenting view the DIW institute in West Berlin, echoing recent statements by leading Bundesbank officials, said the expansion seen over the last 1-1/2 years did not necessarily threaten stability. The five institutes issued a joint spring report, in which three -- Kiel, Hamburg and Essen -- forecast a two pct rise in GNP in 1987, while West Berlin and Munich predicted one pct. The four institutes said an expansive policy was welcome in view of the slowdown in economic activity. But experience has shown that strong monetary growth eventually leads to a price rise which undoes the beneficial effects of monetary policy. Given virtual zero inflation in West Germany such fears may seem exaggerated, they said. "But it has often turned out in the past that the price climate can quickly deteriorate, forcing the central bank into a restrictive policy," they said. The economic costs of a preventive stability policy are less than fighting inflation once it has taken hold, they said. The four institutes disputed the view that monetary expansion would slow of its own accord in 1987 as domestic investors switch liquidity into longer term capital market investments following lower interest rates. "Such redispositions may temporarily dampen the expansion of central bank money stock, but do not automatically lead to a smaller expansion of money supply," they said. A return to growth and stability did not require spectacular central bank moves, but could be done quietly with open market operations and repurchase pacts, which would avoid an interest rate rise by dampening inflationary expectations. The DIW institute said monetary policy should not be focused simply on growth of production potential. Because of uncertainty about exchange rate developments and economic weakness other factors should be taken into account. Monetary policy should aim for further interest rate cuts and avoid rises to boost the economy and discourage revaluation speculation. Recent strong monetary expansion was not a threat in itself to price stability. The 1979/81 inflation following strong 1977/78 money growth reflected other causes, such as rising oil prices and the falling mark. REUTER 
GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT IN MARCH

West German producer prices fell 0.1 pct in March compared with February to stand 3.9 pct lower than in March last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In February, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from January and dropped 4.2 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for natural gas had fallen 3.0 pct in March against February, heavy heating oil prices were 3.2 pct down, liquefied gas prices fell 14 pct and coffee was 7.4 pct cheaper. REUTER 
EUROPEAN BEET SOWINGS CATCH UP, USSR DELAYED

Fine weather throughout Europe allowed farmers to make good progress with sugar beet sowings during the period April 16-21, but conditions in the Soviet Union remained unfavourable, West German analyst F.O. Licht said. With daytime temperatures in parts of Europe exceeding 20 degrees centigrade Licht said sowings have been boosted and may be completed in most countries by the end of the month. In France the beet growers' association said the entire crop could be sown within a week if the good weather persists. Sowings this year will still be behind 1986 but Licht noted that good results have often been produced from late-sown crops. In the Soviet Union, however, most beet-growing regions still had cool weather with night frosts. Only in the western Ukraine was it warm enough to permit sowings, Licht said. Sowings in the USSR will consequently be much later than last year when one mln hectares had already been drilled by mid-April. Reuter 
GERMAN BANKS FACE DISRUPTION AFTER TALKS COLLAPSE

West German banks face disruption from strike ballots and selective strikes after the breakdown of talks on wages and working hours, the German Employees Union, DAG, and the Commerce, Banking and Insurance Union, HBV, said. But the chairman of the bank employers' federation, Horst Burgard, told reporters in Frankfurt he hoped the two sides would reach agreement after a pause for thought. DAG chief negotiator Gerhard Renner said the employers' offer to resume talks was farcical as long as they refused to remove the issue of flexible working hours from the talks. Both sides agreed there was now little point in top level negotiations similar to those held in the engineering industry which resolved a dispute on working hours. Renner and HBV chief negotiator Lorenz Schwegler said they were prepared to compromise on the issue of flexible working hours, but this subject should not be included in the wage negotiations for the 380,000 bank employees. Burgard, also management board member of Deutsche Bank AG, said the employers sought acceptance of more flexible hours on an unchanged 40 hour week in the negotiations. The employers have unilaterally imposed a 3.6 pct pay rise backdated to March 1, with the collapse of the talks. The HBV is seeking a six pct rise and DAG a 6.5 pct increase. Schwegler said the unions would react to the collapse of the talks with protest and warning strikes. Union officials would resist overtime and attempts to introduce flexible hours. Next week the unions will set strike ballots aiming at strikes in sensitive areas such as bank computer and bourse data centres. The unions only account for some 25 pct of bank employees. DAG will seek support from its members in the Bundesbank who are not directly affected by the negotiations. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK AIMS FOR TIGHT MONEY POLICY - SCHLESINGER

The Bundesbank is trying to keep monetary policy tight in order to counter inflationary tendencies, Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger was quoted as saying. "We are trying to keep the monetary framework tight, so that inflationary pressures cannot develop," he told the Frankfurter Neue Presse daily in an interview. "Central bank money stock does not have to be reduced because of this, but it must continue to grow modestly," he said. Bundesbank spokesmen were not available for comment. On Thursday Schlesinger said in a contribution to the Handelsblatt daily that the accommodative monetary stance in West Germany caused by outside pressures could not determine policy in the long term. The improvement in West German terms of trade, providing room for non-inflationary expansion of domestic demand in excess of output growth, put the overshoot of central bank money stock in a more positive light, he said on Thursday. Central bank money stock, the Bundesbank's main monetary measure, was growing at an annual rate of 7.3 pct in March, above the 1987 three-six pct target range. Money stock overshot the 3.5-5.5 pct 1986 growth target. Schlesinger told the Frankfurter Neue Presse that the phase of falling prices was over in West Germany. Prices might still be lower on a comparison with their level one year earlier. But the cost of living index has risen to 120.7 in March from its November 1986 low of 120.0, expressing a slight rise in prices, Schlesinger said. In March the cost of living was steady against February but 0.2 pct below March 1986. Schlesinger said a rise of between one and 1.5 pct during 1987 would be acceptable, and effectively mean price stability. Agreements so far in the current West German wage round are neutral as far as inflation is concerned because of the strength of the mark, Schlesinger said. Wage agreements in the public service and engineering industry were relatively high in view of the stable cost of living. But the higher costs would be compensated for, he said. "I am thinking above all of the fact that in the course of this year we will in all probability have a stronger mark against other currencies than last year," he said, adding "Without this mark revaluation effect, we would have had to say that the wage rise agreements were not neutral for prices." Schlesinger said exchange rate movements had increased the scope for redistributing wealth this year, but this development was unlikely to continue in 1988. "For this reason I cannot comment on that part of the engineering agreement which covers the coming years," he said. Some 2.3 mln workers for the public services received a 3.4 pct pay rise from January 1. An agreement for four mln engineering workers raised pay by 3.7 pct from April 1, and then raises pay by another two pct from April 1, 1988 and by 2.5 pct from April 1, 1989. The engineering agreement also cuts the working week by 1-1/2 hours to 37 hours in two stages. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK CALL TO BONN ON OVER-SPENDING RISKS

The Bundesbank urged the West German government not to relax efforts to rein in spending when taxes are cut in a 1990 fiscal reform package, saying that higher expenditure could lead to a dangerous rise in interest rates. The Bundesbank's 1986 annual report said the government's choice of measures to compensate for any cut in tax income was a key political task. "There will also be consequences for the state's attitude on spending," it said. It added that, while tax cuts should have a stimulatory effect on the economy, the government should not expect any significant increase in tax income in the short-term. The reform will cut taxes by a gross 44 billion marks, of which 19 billion marks will be financed through as yet unspecified measures. The Bundesbank noted that reducing tax preferences and financial grants as well as raising some indirect taxes were being considered. "As experience shows that a tax cut is not self-financing ... The question remains of how the rest of the tax cuts will be financed," the Bundesbank said. The Bundesbank noted that in 1986, spending had increased by more than the three pct annual average rise for 1982 to 1986. If this three pct limit were exceeded over a long period, there would be a danger that increased new borrowing would be necessary to finance deficits. It added that interest rates in West Germany were now low, partly because of a high influx of foreign funds. But the situation would become more difficult if the government's credit requirements increased massively. "The anticipated stimulatory effects on the economy from the tax cuts could be thrown into jeopardy by higher interest rates," it said. REUTER 
GERMAN TRADE SURPLUS SHOULD NARROW, BUNDESBANK SAYS

Germany's current account and trade surpluses should narrow sharply in 1987 but they will take a long time to get back to normal levels, the Bundesbank said in its 1986 yearly report. The procedure would be slow as an abrupt turnaround in external factors such as oil prices and exchange rates was not expected. It did not specify what levels it considered normal. West Germany posted a record trade surplus of 124 billion marks in 1986, after 86 billion in 1985 and its current account surplus widened to 76.50 billion from 44.6 billion. Signs imports would continue to rise, a factor already noted at the start of 1986, while exports rose only slightly, would lead to a smaller trade surplus, the Bundesbank said. In real terms, West German imports rose 5.7 pct in 1986 while exports only increased by 0.8 pct. Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional 6.6 billion in February from 4.8 billion in January but was down from 6.85 billion posted in February 1986. The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4 billion marks from 7.2 billion in January and was still above the 6.84 billion reached in the same month the year before. REUTER 
SIGN OF SLOWING IN GERMAN MONEY GROWTH -BUNDESBANK

Central bank money stock was growing at about seven pct in the first quarter of 1987, down from 9-1/2 pct in the second half of 1986, so there are signs that the pace of growth is slowing even though it is still above target, the Bundesbank said in its 1986 annual report. The Bundesbank set a target range of three to six pct growth from fourth quarter 1986 to fourth quarter 1987 for central bank money stock. In the previous year it grew 7.7 pct, outside the 3-1/2 to 5-1/2 pct target range. The Bundesbank noted that monetary policy in 1986 was limited by a series of external factors. These included the revaluation of the mark, growing foreign payments surpluses of non-banks, and currency inflows. The Bundesbank therefore tolerated the monetary overshoot in 1986, as an attempt to counter monetary expansion with interest rate and liquidity moves would have increased upward pressure on the mark, it said. The lower end of the 1987 target range would be realistic if a large part of funds currently held in a liquid form were invested in long-term bank accounts or bonds, public bonds or foreign securities, the Bundesbank said. But if companies and private households continue to hold their funds in liquid forms, or if there are further currency inflows, growth will be closer to the upper end of the range. "The more the conflict between external constraints and domestic objectives relaxes -- and many things point to this at the time of writing this report -- the more possible it will be to do justice again to the medium-term concept of money supply control," the Bundesbank said. It noted that prices were beginning to tend upwards again at the start of 1987. There would be virtually no easing of other production costs in 1987 to compensate for the rise in unit-wage costs. "Nevertheless, no inflationary trends are likely to set in this year," the Bundesbank said. A link between excessive monetary growth and intensifying price rises can only be observed in the long term, it added. The continuing trend for non-banks to switch into long-term borrowing to take advantage of low interest rates, while for the same reason shunning long-term investments, increases the risks in changing interest rates for banks refinancing themselves with variable-interest deposits, it added. REUTER 
POEHL TO REMAIN BUNDESBANK CHIEF, MAGAZINE SAYS

Chancellor Helmut Kohl has decided to keep Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in office for a further eight years, the news magazine Der Spiegel said. Government officials were not immediately available to comment on the report, which said that because Poehl is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Kohl had not taken the decision lightly. Poehl has been Bundesbank chief since January 1, 1980, while Kohl's conservative/liberal coalition has held power since 1982. Der Spiegel said Kohl would have preferred to offer the post to a member of his Christian Democratic Union (CDU). But the magazine noted Poehl enjoyed a good international reputation. Officials have often said Poehl and CDU Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg hold each other in high regard. Poehl's current term expires at the end of this year. Officials have said no date has been set for an announcement on whether his tenure will be extended. Poehl was made an economic adviser to SPD Chancellor Willy Brandt in 1971. A year later he was appointed State Secretary at the Finance Ministry when former SPD Chancellor Helmut Schmidt was Finance Minister. There has recently been press speculation that the Bundesbank presidency may be offered to Poehl's deputy, Helmut Schlesinger, a conservative monetarist. According to these reports, Schlesinger would be replaced two years later by CDU member Hans Tietmeyer, the current Finance Ministry State Secretary. Also under discussion as president was Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, a member of the Bundesbank board and a CDU member who is known to be close to Kohl. REUTER 
KLOECKNER-WERKE SHARES SUSPENDED IN FRANKFURT

Shares in Kloeckner-Werke AG <KLKG.F> were suspended from stock exchange trading pending an announcement expected by the company today or tomorrow, a bourse spokesman said, without giving further details. Kloeckner shares closed Friday at 67.20 marks. They had come under pressure in recent sessions on reports the company may be exposed to as much as 300 mln marks in debts as a result of the bankruptcy of steelmaker Eisenwerk-Gesellschaft Maximilanshuette mbH (Maxhuette). Kloeckner owns just over 49 pct of the share capital in the Bavarian-based Maxhuette. REUTER 
FURTHER TERM FOR POEHL LIKELY, BONN SOURCES SAY

Karl Otto Poehl is likely to be re-elected President of the Bundesbank when his current term in office expires at the end of this year, government sources said. They were commenting on a report in Der Spiegel news magazine which said Chancellor Helmut Kohl had decided to keep Poehl in office for another eight years. Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost had no comment on the report, other than to say that the subject of the Bundesbank presidency was not currently under discussion. Der Spiegel said that, because Poehl is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Kohl had not taken the decision lightly. Poehl has been Bundesbank chief since January 1, 1980, while Kohl's conservative/liberal coalition has held power since 1982. Der Spiegel said Kohl would have preferred to offer the post to a member of his Christian Democratic Union (CDU). REUTER 
POEHL TO REMAIN BUNDESBANK CHIEF, MAGAZINE SAYS

Chancellor Helmut Kohl has decided to keep Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in office for a further eight years, the news magazine Der Spiegel said. Government officials were not immediately available to comment on the report, which said that because Poehl is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Kohl had not taken the decision lightly. Poehl has been Bundesbank chief since January 1, 1980, while Kohl's conservative/liberal coalition has held power since 1982. Der Spiegel said Kohl would have preferred to offer the post to a member of his Christian Democratic Union (CDU). But the magazine noted Poehl enjoyed a good international reputation. Officials have often said Poehl and CDU Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg hold each other in high regard. Poehl's current term expires at the end of this year. Officials have said no date has been set for an announcement on whether his tenure will be extended. Poehl was made an economic adviser to SPD Chancellor Willy Brandt in 1971. A year later he was appointed State Secretary at the Finance Ministry when former SPD Chancellor Helmut Schmidt was Finance Minister. There has recently been press speculation that the Bundesbank presidency may be offered to Poehl's deputy, Helmut Schlesinger, a conservative monetarist. According to these reports, Schlesinger would be replaced two years later by CDU member Hans Tietmeyer, the current Finance Ministry State Secretary. Also under discussion as president was Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, a member of the Bundesbank board and a CDU member who is known to be close to Kohl. REUTER 
GERMAN SUGAR BEET PLANTINGS MOST ADVANCED IN SOUTH

Sugar beet plantings are almost complete in southern West Germany but are lagging behind in other regions, trade sources said. In the west of the country, about 60 pct of the plantings were completed, while in the north only 40 pct of the sugar beet area has been sown, they said. The weather is forecast to stay mild in northern West Germany in the coming days and more planting progress is expected there, they said. This year's area sown to sugar beets is likely to fall to 38,500 hectares from around 40,000 last year. REUTER 
FRENCH PRODUCERS WITHDRAW SUGAR FROM INTERVENTION

French producers have withdrawn all offers to sell more than 700,000 tonnes of sugar into European Community intervention stocks, EC Commission sources said. They also said West German producers had now withdrawn the last 3,000 of the 79,250 tonnes they sold into EC stores on April 1. The sales were made to protest against the level of export restitutions being granted for sugar at weekly EC tenders. Last Friday, commission sources said the West German producers had withdrawn all but 3,000 tonnes of their sales. The protest by European producers involved sales of 854,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention, of which 785,000 tonnes were accepted by the commission. Under EC regulations, operators had five weeks before receiving payment to withdraw the sugar. Their decision to withdraw the sugar follows what commission sources have said is a slight shift in the authority's stance in recent weeks. The commission last week increased the maximum restitutions to within about 0.5 Ecus per kilo of the prices which traders claim are needed to match intervention prices. Reuter 
EC SUGAR STANCE LED TO GERMAN INTERVENTION MOVE

A shift in the European Community's attitude to exports led to West German producers withdrawing sugar sold into intervention, industry sources said. The sources noted the withdrawal followed a rise in maximum Commission restitutions to within 0.5 European currency units, Ecus, per 100 kilos of the level traders claim is needed to match intervention prices. One source said, "This was taken as a sign that the Community was taking a more favourable stance towards exports." He added producers still expected more from the Commission. German producers had sold 79,250 tonnes into intervention. Reuter 
GERMAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN MARCH

West Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional 8.8 billion marks in March from a slightly downwards revised 6.5 billion in February, a spokesman for the Federal Statistics Office said. The trade surplus fell to a provisional 10.1 billion marks from 10.4 billion in February. The Statistics Office had earlier put the February current account surplus at a provisional 6.6 billion marks. The provisional February trade surplus was confirmed. The Office said the March trade surplus had also risen strongly from the year-ago month total of 8.5 billion marks, while the March current account surplus compared with only 4.3 billion marks a year earlier. The figures given by the office show nominal trade flows, but an office statement said that the current account surplus had also risen in real terms from February. However, it attributed this partly to the fact that payments to the European Community had been brought forward in February, with the result that transfers abroad in March were unusually low. The Statistics Office said March imports totalled 36.93 billion marks, a rise of 15 pct from February and of 4.7 pct compared with March 1986. March exports of 47.06 billion marks were 11 pct higher than in February and 7.6 pct higher than in March last year. Other data reported in the current account balance showed there was a 400 mln mark deficit in supplementary trade items, a 500 mln mark deficit in the services account and a 400 mln mark deficit in transfer payments. The Statistics Office said that in the first three months of this year the trade surplus had risen to 27.8 billion marks from 22.6 billion marks in the same period last year. The current account surplus had risen to 20.0 billion marks from 15.6 billion. REUTER 
GERMAN PRIMARY BOND MARKET SEEN REVIVING IN JUNE

West Germany's eurobond market may revive in June, after two month's relative dormancy, before dozing off for the summer, bond market sources said. Syndicate managers said many borrowers, anticipating lower West German interest rates, cancelled mandates during the last two-week calendar, hoping borrowing costs would decline. Borrowers are likely to return as domestic interest rates lose downward momentum, syndicate managers said. A supranational issue via Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozcentrale is likely today and Dresdner Bank AG could lead a new bond. New issue volume is likely to be helped by a recent domestic legal change which indirectly lowered costs for European Community state-backed borrowers, the sources said. A statutory change to the West German Exchange Admissions Act, which went into effect on May 1, allows such borrowers to file for bourse listing without a prospectus and without an underwriting group. This saves them the 1/2 point listing fee formerly paid to banks. The two most recent issues for Electricite de France, led by Deutsche Bank AG, and Bank of Greece, led by Commerzbank AG, were brought to market under the new law, managers said. Deutsche Bank confirmed that its bond was brought out in conformance with the new law. Commerzbank had no comment. The success of Commerzbank's Bank of Greece deal, especially for the shorter of the two tranches of five and eight years, has also encouraged syndicate managers to bring out new issues during the new calendar period. Many borrowers might also seek to get their bonds in before the market enters its quiet summer phase, referred to by German bond dealers as the "summer hole." But syndicate managers said there are also some factors standing in the way of new issues. One negative factor is that current swap conditions for marks into dollars are not favourable. Syndicate managers said the yield spread between domestic Schuldschein notes and mark eurobonds is now too low to make swaps profitable for eurobond borrowers. Low yields on domestic notes comparable to mark eurobonds mean German banks can now borrow cheaply at domestic rates. They would charge a high premium to borrowers taking up euromarks for swaps as banks have little incentive to take on more expensive euromark liabilities at present. However, some foreign borrowers might anyway borrow in marks out of a genuine need for the currency, managers said. Another factor which might dampen the primary market is uncertainty about the dollar. Its rise last week over 1.80 marks helped send West German government bonds lower by nearly one pfennig over the week. If the dollar looks poised to stabilize or rise further, foreign investors in mark eurobonds could switch out of them on the belief that gains from the mark's appreciation were ending, dealers said. The dollar is expected to remain stable this week before the seven leading nations begin their economic summit in Venice on June 8. In May, a total of 1.1 billion marks of new mark eurobonds were launched, compared with 1.0 billion in April. This compared with a relatively active March, when 2.3 billion marks of eurobonds were launched, and a very strong February, when issues totalled nearly 5.0 billion. REUTER 
GERMAN APRIL WHOLESALE TURNOVER FALLS FOUR PCT

West German wholesale turnover provisionally totalled about 66 billion marks in April, a real decline of four pct compared with the same month last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In March wholesale turnover had risen by a real seven pct on the year-ago period. The Statistics Office said that in the first four months of this year wholesale turnover of about 244 billion marks was a real one pct down from last year. REUTER 
BENETTON SEES HIGHER PROFIT, SALES IN 1987

Italian fashion conglomerate Benetton Group Spa <BTOM.MI> expects its net profit to rise to around 135 billion lire in 1987 from 113 billion the year before, Aldo Palmeri, managing director of Benetton Group, said. Palmeri told a presentation here that sales should increase to between 1,280 and 1,300 billion lire in 1987 from 1,079 billion in 1986, of which foreign sales were expected to take up 850 billion lire. Benetton finance director Carlo Gilardi said the company was planning to diversify further into the financial services sector and would also expand into the shoe business. Benetton expanded into financial services mainly to speed up the development of its own systems, Gilardi said. Benetton has 400 sub-contractors and 600 distributor companies which created a demand for such services. "But we do not plan to abandon our traditional business," Gilardi said. Benetton plans to expand further outside Italy, especially in the Far East. Talks are under way over a possible joint venture with the Soviet Union and with South Korea. Palmeri said Benetton plans to list its shares in Frankfurt, London, New York and Tokyo as part of its global expansion but gave no dates when the listings would take place. Reuter 
NATIONAL HOME LOANS LAUNCHES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

National Home Loans Corp Plc of London is raising 100 mln dlrs through a five-year bullet eurobond carrying an 8-3/4 pct coupon and priced at 100-5/8 pct to yield 8.59 pct at issue, lead manager Commerzbank AG said. Payment date is July 7. The bond pays interest on that date annually, and matures on that date in 1992. Denominations are 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. The bond will be listed in London. Fees total 1-7/8 pct, comprising 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined and 1-1/4 pct for selling. REUTER 
KOHL COALITION ACCEPTS DOUBLE-ZERO

West Germany said it would accept a superpower plan to ban medium and shorter-range nuclear missiles in Europe provided Bonn was allowed to retain its own shorter-range missiles. After six weeks of public wrangling over the so-called "double-zero" offer, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's coalition finally said it would agree to an East-West ban on shorter-range nuclear missiles. But in a statement issued after top-level talks, the government said Bonn wanted the 72 West German Pershing-1a missiles excluded from an East-West accord -- a demand diplomats said could produce a snag in the Geneva arms talks. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER

The Bundesbank set a new tender for a 28-day securities repurchase agreement, offering banks liquidity aid at a minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT today and funds allocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow. Banks must repurchase securities pledged on July 1. REUTER 
GERMAN GNP FIGURES PUBLICATION DELAYED

Figures for first quarter 1987 West German GNP will be published on June 11 after they were provisionally scheduled for June 4, an official at the Federal Statistics Office said. The official said there had been a delay in gathering information for the data, which are expected to show that the West German economy contracted in the period. A spokesman for the Economics Ministry in Bonn said there was no political motivation behind publishing the figures on June 11, the day after the Venice economic summit ends. "There is no political motivation. It is a purely technical matter," he added. The West German government is expected to come under pressure in Venice from both the U.S. And its European partners to stimulate domestic demand as a way of reducing international trade imbalances and contributing to world economic growth. However, government officials have ruled out any further tax reduction packages to supplement a major program of stimulatory fiscal measures already underway. Helmut Schlesinger, vice-president of the West German central bank, the Bundesbank, said in Tokyo today that GNP, the widest measure of a country's economic activity, fell in real terms by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter compared with the fourth 1986 period. The government has confirmed that growth was negative in the first 1987 quarter. But year-on-year growth is expected to be about two pct. Schlesinger today repeated the Bundesbank's reluctance to cut its official interest rates further. Its key discount rate, at three pct, is just above historical lows. West German officials are likely to emphasise at the Venice summit that domestic demand, which draws in goods from abroad, is already outstripping export performance, which has suffered from an 80 pct rise of the mark against the dollar in just over two years. The government has pointed out that depressed exports are the main reason for the current weakness in the economy, but says that later in the year stronger domestic demand will compensate for this setback. It expects GNP growth for the whole of 1987 of just under two pct, after a 2.4 pct rise in 1986. REUTER 
HOECHST SALES FALL IN FIRST FIVE MONTHS

Hoechst AG <HFAG.F> parent company turnover fell in the first five months of 1987, with domestic business losing seven pct and exports dropping eight pct from the same period last year, management board chairman Wolfgang Hilger told the annual meeting. In volume terms, however, turnover was somewhat improved, he said. Domestic sales, by volume, were steady in the first five months and export volume rose two pct. He gave no figures for turnover or sales volume. As already reported, parent company sales fell to 3.44 billion marks in the first quarter of 1987, 7.6 pct below the first 1986 quarter. Domestic sales lost 6.6 pct and export business fell by 8.5 pct compared with the 1986 quarter. First quarter group pre-tax profits rose to 686 mln marks from 649 mln in the same period last year. Hilger said Hoechst's aim this year was to make prices competitive internationally, but also to cover costs. The compmany has already taken measures to reduce costs internally, he said. Hoechst expects to post another good profit in 1987, Hilger said. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK SOURCES SAY VOLCKER MOVE REGRETTED

The Bundesbank noted with regret that Paul Volcker will not be available for a further term as Federal Reserve chairman, Bundesbank sources said. Cooperation with Volcker was always trusting and successful for many years, the sources said. On the other hand the Bundesbank is confident that the good cooperation between the Bundesbank and the Fed will continue under the chairmanship of Alan Greenspan, the sources said. REUTER 
GERMAN EXPERTS SAY NO FURTHER ECONOMIC STIMULUS

The West German government's independent council of economic experts believes a further stimulation of the economy is inappropriate, government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said. A statement released by Ost after a meeting of Chancellor Helmut Kohl and senior government officials with the council said the experts believed 1987 ecomomic growth of 1-1/2 to two pct was achievable. It added the council believed "an intensification of the already expansionary stimulation of monetary and financial policy is not called for." Ost's statement said experts believed further pressure on West Germany to adapt to external economic factors would not increase. The government regularly uses the term "changed external economic factors" when referring to the fall of the dollar, which has severely damaged West German exports. Bonn officials have said they expect exports to pick up during the year, but could still fall below the 1986 level. Along with other leading industrial countries, West Germany agreed to a package of measures at a meeting in Paris in February aimed at stemming the fall of the dollar. The stance taken by the experts backs up the official position of the West German government ahead of next week's seven nation summit in Venice, where Bonn is expected to be pressed by the U.S. And other partners to boost its economy. West German government officials have stressed Bonn is not in a position to stimulate growth further since tax cuts due next year and 1990 are already stretching the budget. The Bundesbank has also ruled out a quick cut in official interest rates although it sees market rates continuing low. The experts' prediction for economic growth this year of between 1-1/2 and two pct is a slight downward revision from a forecast made last November when two pct growth was forecast. Many independent forecasters have revised down 1987 predictions in light of the downturn in exports. The government itself has said it expects growth of just under two pct, compared with a 2.4 pct expansion in 1986. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG PRAISES FED'S VOLCKER

Finance Minster Gerhard Stoltenberg praised the excellent leadership of Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker whom the White House said will not be standing for a third term when his current period in office expires. "Paul Volcker will go down in U.S. History as one of the important chairmen of the Federal Reserve Board. By his excellent leadership he has also won our great respect," Stoltenberg said in a Finance Ministry statement. The minister described Volcker's successor, economist Alan Greenspan, as an experienced and capable man and wished him all the best in his new role. REUTER 
DEUTSCHE BANK SAYS NO SUPPORT FOR VW MANAGEMENT

West Germany's biggest bank said it would withhold support from Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> management at next month's annual meeting because of the VW currency scandal. Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> said it would abstain in votes exonerating VW management and the supervisory board, which represents shareholders and employees, unless an auditor's report on the currency scandal is published before the July 2 annual meeting and either clearly absolves or blames the management and board. Several shareholder groups have said they will vote against management at what promises to be a stormy annual meeting. If a majority of shareholders back these groups, the top management of Europe's biggest carmaker could be dismissed. Deutsche said it expected the results of the auditor's report on the currency fraud, which cost VW some 260 mln dlrs, to be published before the annual meeting. But in a letter to Deutsche customers depositing their VW shares at the bank, Deutsche wrote: "Without knowledge of these results, we do not think we are in a position to make you a suggestion for or against exoneration of the management board and supervisory board." "Unless you give us instructions to the contrary, we will abstain with your shares ... but we reserve the right to vote for or against exoneration of the management board and supervisory board, if this seems in your interest in line with the results of the auditor's report," it added. A strong shareholder vote against the management would empower the supervisory board to dismiss the management if it chooses, though such a move would not be mandatory. A member of the supervisory board who does not receive exoneration at an annual meeting may have to step down. An abstention or no-vote by banks on behalf of customers against management would in itself be a vote of no confidence. German banks traditionally use their huge proxy votes at annual meetings to support the management of the company, in which they are often represented on the supervisory board. VW management board chairman Carl Hahn said in April that 1986 profits had been hit by the scandal, in which documents relating to currency arbitrage were allegedly faked, but profits for 1987 would not be affected. Following the scandal, finance director Rolf Selowsky resigned, and former chief dealer Bobby Junger was arrested. Deutsche represents 8-10 pct of VW's share capital, the sources said, and F. Wilhelm Christians, one of the bank's two management board spokesmen (chief executives) is on the VW supervisory board. Banking sources said Deutsche was furious with VW after the bank led an international placement of VW shares from the company's record rights issue last September. Less than two months later VW announced a sharp fall in interim profits, bashing its share price and severely denting confidence in the German share market generally. A spokesman for the Savings Bank Association said that German savings banks would vote not to discharge Selowsky, and depending on whether the auditor's report was published would abstain on the vote for other management board members. The federal government and the state of Lower Saxony together have 40 pct of VW shareholders' votes. It is still unclear how they will vote. Associations representing small shareholders will also ensure the annual meeting is heated. The Protective Association for Securities Ownership has said it will vote against the entire management board, and the Protective Society for Small Shareholders will also vote against the supervisory board. A spokeswoman for Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft AG, the auditors commissioned by VW in March to investigate the scandal, declined to comment when its report would be issued. Reuter 
BLOCKED RHINE NAVIGATION CHANNEL REMAINS CLOSED

The main navigation channel of the Rhine, blocked by two sunken boats, will remain closed at least until the beginning of next week, a water authority spokesman said today. Karlsruhe water authorities said a queue of about 70 ships had formed between the towns of Speyer and Iffezheim but most shipping companies had unloaded cargoes and were using alternative means of transport. Heinz-Josef Recker, of the Mannheim water authority, said two floating cranes would make a fresh attempt to raise the sunken tug and its lighter after an unsuccessful try on Friday. The tug Orinoko hit a railway bridge last Tuesday and sank with a cargo of 3,500 tonnes of gravel on board. Before the accident, about 100 ships a day sailed under the bridge. Reuter 
W GERMAN SHIP HIT DURING WARSAW PACT WAR GAMES

A West German navy ship was accidentally hit today by artillery shells from a Warsaw Pact vessel in the Baltic Sea and three sailors were injured, the Defence Ministry said. The ship, the Tender Neckar, was struck while watching Warsaw Pact exercises in the Baltic Sea, a ministry spokesman said. He could not say what condition the men were in or which country owned the ship which fired the shots. The spokesman said West Germany believed the incident was accidental. Reuter 
GERMANY PLANS TO RUSH SPECIAL CREDITS TO FARMERS

Bonn is expected to rush through legislation this month creating special credits to protect West German farmers from a proposed European Community, EC, payments freeze, government sources said. The new measures are apparently designed to shield West German farmers from the consequences of the looming EC budget crisis and give Bonn scope to keep up its opposition to the EC executive commission's farm policy reform plans, political sources said. EC finance and farm minsters held an unprecedented joint session in Luxembourg today to try to solve the stalemate over future farm financing. West Germany has proved the main obstacle to Commission attempts to raise fresh funds for farm financing by taxing imports of vegetable oil and fats, for fear of U.S. retaliation. Bonn has also opposed the abolition of an agri-monetary mechanism that acts as a subsidy for West German farm exports. The draft legislation, which the ruling centre-right coalition will present to parliament tomorrow, would provide temporary credits for farm subsidies usually paid by Brussels. The Commission, facing a five billion European Currency Units (5.73 billion dlrs) budget deficit by the end of the year, has threatened to start phasing out payment of some subsidies and premiums from August, unless EC member states take urgent measures to provide fresh funds. West German Agriculture Minister Ignaz Kiechle gave the new legislation top priority after last month's failure to agree to a farm price package for 1986/87. Political sources in Bonn said Kiechle decided to take the sting out of proposed Commission measures to cut back subsidies by creating a buffer for West German farmers. The opposition SPD has agreed to back the Kiechle bill and allow its hasty passage through parliament by July 1, ahead of the summer recess, SPD sources said. SPD farm policy spokesman Jan Oostergetelo said his party would support the bill, even though it would further swell massive government spending on agriculture. He said the bill was an admission that the government believes the farm price talks will fail and the EC faces bankruptcy. According to a copy of the draft bill obtained by Reuters, government authorities will have over two billion marks (1.1 billion dlrs) available to pay farmers advance subsidies and premiums for grains and other crops harvested this summer. The Commission has agreed to pay the subsidies eventually. But paying farmers on time will cost Bonn about 100 mln marks (55 mln dlrs) in interest payments, farm policy sources said. Chancellor Helmut Kohl's cabinet is expected to support the bill when it meets tomorrow. Reuter 
GERMAN STEEL INDUSTRY TO SEEK LAY-OFF FUNDS

The West German Government will be asked June 16 to provide nearly 850 million marks (470 million dollars) to lay off or retrain 20,000 steel workers whose jobs are threatened by the recent slump in the country's steel industry. Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said Chancellor Helmut Kohl will review a joint proposal by steel employers and trade unions at a meeting on the ailing industry tomorrow. Both steel employers and union leaders are expected to tell Kohl tomorrow that the Government has failed to do enough to protect German steel firms from subsidies and unfair competition from other European Community members. Government sources said Bonn was prepared to take part in a common effort to find a solution for the steelworkers. But since the Government is struggling to finance tax cuts by slashing state subsidies, it is not prepared to pick up the whole bill for the layoffs, the sources said. A spokesman for IG Metall, the metalworkers' trade union, said the proposal seeks redundancy payments to 10,000 workers in Ruhr and Rhineland plants. Some 6,000 workers would be redeployed in non-steel making sectors of steel companies, while a further 4,000 would be eligible for job-retraining schemes. The union estimates that the redundancy payments would total 600 million marks (340 million dollars), while job retraining schemes would cost a further 240 million marks (130 million dollars). Up to 30,000 West German steel jobs are at risk in the next few years following steep losses incurred by the industry since mid-1986. Extensive restructuring of the industry in recent years was unable to compensate for the effects of the weak dollar which depressed foreign demand for steel, industry sources said. Reuter 
CREDIT INDUSTRIEL LAUNCHES MARK FLOATING RATE NOTE

Compagnie Financiere de Credit Industriel et Commercial is raising 255 mln marks through a six-year floating rate note (FRN) carrying a coupon of 1/8 point over six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and priced at 100.05, lead manager Morgan Stanley GmbH said. The bullet bond will be sold in denominations 10,000 and 250,000 marks and listed in Frankfurt. It matures on March 20, 1993. Payment date will be July 20, 1987. Fees total 15 basis points with five for selling and 10 for management and underwriting combined. The bond is the first lead-managed by Morgan Stanley in the mark sector. REUTER 
GERMAN STEEL INDUSTRY SEEKS LAY-OFF FUNDS

The West German government today considered demands for nearly 850 mln marks to lay off or retrain 20,000 steel workers. Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said Chancellor Helmut Kohl reviewed a joint proposal by steel employers and trade unions at a special meeting with steel industry representatives. Companies like Fried Krupp <KRPG.D> and Hoesch Werke AG <HWKG.F>, which saw profits plunge last year, have taken the unusual step of aligning with the metalworkers' trade union, IG Metall, to press for government finance to slim staff levels still further. Government officials said Bonn was prepared to take part in a common effort to find a solution for the steelworkers. But since the government was struggling to finance tax cuts by reducing state subsidies, it could not pay for all the layoffs. A spokesman for IG Metall said the joint proposal foresaw redundancy payments to 10,000 workers in Ruhr and Rhineland plants. Some 6,000 workers would be redeployed in non-steel making sectors of steel companies, while a further 4,000 would be eligible for job-retraining schemes. Redundancies are estimated at 600 mln marks, while job retraining would cost a further 240 mln. REUTER 
RPT - EUROPEAN TRADE MAY PROPOSE NEW ICO FORMULA

European coffee traders and roasters may propose a new formula for calculating International Coffee Organization (ICO) coffee quotas at the end of their meeting here this week, traders and officials told Reuters. Although traders were unwilling to reveal details of the possible new formula, they said it would give Brazil, the world's biggest coffee producer, unchanged ICO quotas for the next two years and could be a basis for renegotiation. "The main sticking point on quotas has been Brazil's attitude, and this compromise could be a solution, " one said. However, the European coffee trade federation meeting, which began here today and is to continue to the end of the week, has revealed gaps in the European position on re-introducing quotas. Traders said that, as a whole, the trade side was against re-introduction of ICO quotas, while roasters were generally in favour with the single proviso that there had to be some formula basis for re-allocating quota shares among producing countries. The roasters said the positions were generally fairly close, and problems with some Government officials. Germany and Italy were cited as the extremes of polarized Government attitudes, with most other countries on the fence. Sources said Germany was the most extreme against quota re-introduction, while the Italians were most in favour. "Nevertheless, we expect to find enough common ground by the end of the week to at least present a common European Community (EC) view at the next meeting of consumer members of the International Coffee Agreement (ICA) in July," one trader said. "We hope we can present the compromise proposal and that not only the consumer side, but the producer side will accept it," one official said. "We have learned that we can live without the quotas that were suspended in February last year, but would prefer the stability they can bring to the market as long as we do not simply return to the old and outdated status quo as far as quota allocation is concerned," he added. Overall, however, trader and roaster opinion on the likelihood of a successful re-negotiation was mildly pessimistic, varying between a 50-50 chance and 60-40 against. "Our main difficulty will be to persuade the U.S. On the consumer side and Brazil on the producer side to agree to quota re-introduction, " he said. "The U.S. Position has, if anything, hardened, while the new Brazilian Coffee Institute president has adopted the least negotiable position of any of his predecessors," one trader said. "However, with many producers starting to swing in favour of the consumer position that quotas have to be re-allocated under a new formula, Brazil is becoming increasingly isolated, which gives at least some hope of a compromise at the ICO quota meeting in September," the official said. Reuter 
BONN SHOULD SPEED UP TAX REFORM, INSTITUTE SAYS

West Germany's proposed tax reform should be brought forward to stimulate economic growth and head off U.S.-led pressure on Bonn to take further fiscal steps to help boost the world economy, the Ifo economic institute said. An Ifo report said, "The total growth effect of the reform could be considerably enhanced, and international pressure on the government therefore reduced, if a larger portion of the tax cuts planned by 1990 were brought forward to 1988." Swift action is required to remove growing doubts about how the 44 billion mark tax reform will be financed, Ifo said. The report says the tax reform will be insufficient and too late to stimulate economic growth, as demanded by West Germany's industrial partners. Since the lion's share of cuts worth a gross 44 billion marks "will not go into effect before 1990, their impact on growth will be too little, too late," said Ifo. The West German government has consistently said that by cutting taxes and encouraging consumer spending it is boosting domestic demand and making a significant contribution to world economic growth. Bonn has agreed to increase the scope of tax reductions planned for 1988. In March, the government said 1988 tax cuts would be expanded by 5.2 billion marks to 13.7 billion. A month later, economics minister Martin Bangemann countered a joint call from all five German economic institutes to speed up tax cuts by saying such a step would endanger efforts to consolidate the budget and keep new public borrowing down. Financing the tax reform has become an "acute problem," Ifo said. "Currently, every proposal over financing (the reform) comes up against political opposition. There will be a lot more criticism before the outstanding 19.4 billion marks needed to finance the reform has been accounted for," the report said. The government has pledged to agree by the Autumn how to raise around 19 billion marks still needed to finance tax cuts. Subsidies paid to ailing industries are the major target. But even leading coalition members like Matthias Wissmann, economics spokesman for the ruling Christian Democratic party, have conceded that subsidy cuts exceeding five billion marks are unrealistic, leaving a remaining 14 billion marks to be found. An increase in public borrowing will be inevitable to help finance the tax cuts, but Bonn should be able to cope with this, the report said. Despite vigorous opposition from the Free Democrats, the junior partners in the centre-right coalition government, Bonn will eventually be forced to increase value added tax (VAT) due to tax harmonisation measures within the European Community. A VAT increase will also provide funds for income tax reform, the report said. Viewed in the context of efforts by Bonn, Washington and Tokyo to reform taxes, "despite its various shortcomings, West Germany's planned tax reform is better than its reputation," Ifo said. The effective cut in the income tax burden carried by West Germans will be greater than in the U.S., Although the rate reductions are smaller and income tax levels will remain higher overall, the report said. REUTER 
OECD SEES GERMAN GROWTH HIT BY LOW DOMESTIC DEMAND

West German economic growth will slow to 1.5 pct this year from 2.4 pct in 1986 due to weak domestic demand and tougher competition from abroad, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said in its semi-annual review of the world economy. This view is less favourable than the West German government's forecast of a growth rate of under two pct this year, but is in line with forecasts by independent economic institutes of growth ranging from 1.5 to two pct. The OECD said that the economy should pick up next year, with the gross national product rising by two pct in real terms. The OECD said it assumed the German economy was passing through a period of temporary weakness and there would be some recovery in business confidence in the near future. But it warned that the key to an improvement in the economy was higher domestic demand, which is only forecast to rise by 2.5 pct this year and 2.75 pct in 1988, below 1986's 3.7 pct. While noting that the government is bringing forward a five billion mark tax reform to January 1988, the OECD said that "the medium to longer-term performance of the West German economy could be improved by reduction of subsidies - which would allow relatively lower tax rates." Since the OECD report was compiled, the West German Federal Statistics Office has released figures showing that the GNP actually fell 0.5 pct in real terms in the first quarter of this year compared with the final three months of 1986. Diplomatic sources here said that West Germany appeared likely to finish the year with the lowest growth rate of any of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations. West Germany's current account surplus, the target of considerable criticism by the Reagan administration, is expected to rise slightly to 37 billion dlrs this year from 35.8 billion in 1986, before declining to 29 billion dlrs in 1988. REUTER 
GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.1 PCT IN MAY

West German producer prices rose 0.1 pct in May compared with April to stand 2.9 pct lower than in May last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In April, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from March and dropped 3.6 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for liquefied gas fell 10 pct in May from April and heavy heating oil prices declined 5.3 pct, while lead prices rose 23 pct and silver prices increased 13 pct. REUTER 
EC FARM MINISTERS MEETING UNLIKELY NEXT WEEK

A meeting of European Community (EC) farm ministers is unlikely to be held next week following the ministers' failure to agree a 1987/88 farm price package yesterday, an EC Commission spokesman said. However, he said he could not rule out such a meeting altogether, noting the decision is one for Belgium, which currently holds the presidency of the EC council of ministers. The farm ministers could also meet in parallel with the meeting of EC heads of government in Brussels on June 29 and 30, diplomats noted. The ministers ended their three-day meeting in Luxembourg still split on the question of an oils and fats tax and with West Germany saying it would use its veto on two other key aspects of EC Commission proposals, the actual common price changes and a revision of the "green money" system. The Commission spokesman said an announcement is likely to appear in the EC's Official Journal within a few days giving notice of the Commission's intention to take emergency measures from July 1 should ministers fail to reach an accord. However, Commission sources said this notice would not detail the measures to be taken, which, they said, might be considered by the Commission at its regular weekly meeting next Wednesday. The Commission published a declaration by EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen made in Luxembourg early yesterday at the end of the agriculture ministers' meeting. In it, Andriessen said there was now a serious threat to the functioning of the Common Agricultural Policy. Andriessen added ,"The Commission...Will take the measures which are necessary, not only for the temporary management of the markets, but also for a healthy finance policy." "This means that the protective measures we are going to apply will necessarily have, in the context of our own powers, a dynamic character," he said. REUTER 
VW,TOYOTA LIGHT TRUCK DEAL CLOSE TO CONCLUSION

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> said negotiations with Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> over a joint production accord have reached "an advanced stage." An announcement on an agreement to assemble Toyota Hi Lux light trucks at VW's Hanover plant is expected next week, industry sources close to VW said. The Financial Times newspaper quoted VW managing board chairman Carl Hahn saying he was certain the two companies would agree to produce one tonne pick-up trucks from 1988. Reuter 
BONN WILL HOLD TAX REFORM TIMETABLE, KOHL SAYS

The West German government will stick to its agreed timetable and introduce tax cuts worth 44 billion marks from 1990, Chancellor Helmut Kohl said. Kohl told a news conference, "The tax reform will be realised as agreed by the coalition after the (last general) election" in January. He said the leadership of his own Christian Democratic party repeated its support for the tax reform timetable at a meeting this week. CDU vice-chairman Lothar Spaeth also reiterated his doubts about whether the reform was feasible as planned, but received no support from other party members, he added. Kohl said the government intends to decide by the autumn how to raise around 19 billion marks still needed to finance the tax reform. Subsidies paid to ailing industries are the main target for trimming to pay for the tax reform. But politicians both inside and outside the government have expressed doubts about making politically painful cuts in subsidies. REUTER 
HIGH WATER EXTENDS RHINE RIVER BLOCKAGE

Rising water levels on the Rhine caused by heavy rain are delaying an operation near Karlsruhe to raise two sunken boats which have blocked the river's main navigation channel since early last week, a Karlsruhe water authority spokesman said. He said two floating cranes were unable to begin lifting the sunken tug Orinoko and its lighter because the water level had reached 815 centimetres and was forecast to rise to 820-830 cm by tomorrow. He was unable to say when the operation might begin. Meanwhile, high water at Cologne has forced vessels to travel at reduced speed, a water authority spokesman in Cologne said. But a water authority spokesman in Duisburg, 60 kms north of Cologne, said vessels there were moving normally. Reuter 
RHINE BLOCKED FOR THREE MORE WEEKS - SALVAGER

Dutch salvage firm Smit-Tak said it may take some three weeks to lift the Swiss tug Orinoko and its lighter Pavo which sank 10 days ago at Karlsruhe in West Germany, blocking the Rhine river. Smit-Tak, which with its West German subsidiary Harms Bergung GmbH was commissioned by the local water authorities to raise the vessels, said its lifting fleet was in position and divers had made the first inspection. Smit is still preparing its final salvage plan and said the work would begin on Sunday. Reuter 
BFG <BKFG.F> GROUP NET RISES IN 1986

Year ended December 31, 1986. Group net profit 45.2 mln marks vs 35.2 mln. Interest surplus 1.09 billion marks vs 1.21 billion. Commission surplus 405.5 mln marks vs 391.7 mln. Extraordinary earnings 784.4 mln marks vs 82.6 mln. Published risk provisions 865.9 mln marks vs 366.7 mln. Balance sheet 59.89 billion marks vs 63.67 billion. Full name is Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft AG. Note. Figures revised from provisional figures issued in March. Extraordinary earnings linked to sale of subsidiaries. REUTER 
BFG PROFIT DIPS IN FIRST FOUR MONTHS

Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft AG's <BKFG.F> (BfG) partial operating profits in the first four months of this year were lower than in the same period in 1986, management board chairman Thomas Wegscheider said. But the balance sheet total at the end of May was four pct higher than one year earlier as savings continued to flow into the bank, he told the annual press conference. BfG parent bank partial operating profits halved to 166 mln marks in 1986 from 311 mln in 1985, with the balance sheet falling to 48.80 billion marks from 49.02 billion. Wegscheider declined to give a forecast for the full year, and noted that the first four months of this year were not comparable with the 1986 period as first quarter 1986 had been extremely successful for the bank. The general banking environment this year was not easy, with the interest margin under pressure, securities business suffering from markedly lower bourse turnover than last year and sluggish credit demand, he said. "As far as the specific BfG environment is concerned, we note a clear atmospheric improvement, which however is being reflected in the figures only slowly," he added. Wegscheider said the bank was recovering from speculation about its ownership, which had unnerved many customers last year, and from the financial crisis involving the Neue Heimat housing group linked to BfG's former trade union owners. Insurer Aachener und Muenchener Beteiligungs-AG <AMVG.F>, AMB, acquired 50 pct plus one share of BfG late last year. Wegscheider said that earnings from trading on the bank's own account in 1986 had been a little higher than partial operating profits, but had performed better in the first half. Following the AMB acquisition, BfG sold its 25.01 pct stake in <Volksfuersorge Deutsche Lebensversicherung AG>, its 74.9 pct in <BSV Bank fuer Sparanlagen und Vermoegensbildung AG> and five pct of <Allgemeine Hypothekenbank AG>. These sales produced extraordinary earnings of 700 mln marks, with parent bank earnings from profit transfer agreements rising to 494.18 mln marks in 1986 from 54.24 mln in 1985, and other earnings including writing bank risk provisions rising to 317.95 mln marks from 65.67 mln. Wegscheider said most of the extraordinary earnings went into risk provisions. Total risk provisions, undetailed, were more than twice as high as in 1985, Wegscheider said. Published group risk provisions rose to 865.9 mln marks from 366.7 mln. But the share of credits to problem countries covered by risk provisions was still below 50 pct at BfG, he said. The BSV Bank stake sale was one of the main factors behind a 3.8 billion mark drop in the group balance sheet in 1986. Wegscheider said the re-organization of BfG, planned before the AMB acquisition and involving a decentralization, would occupy much of BfG's energies this year. BfG and AMB were also looking at ways of cooperating in sales of services. REUTER 
VW SUFFERS IMAGE LOSS IN WAKE OF CURRENCY SCANDAL

Share analysts and commentators say Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> has suffered an enormous loss of face from which it could take time to recover over its 473 mln mark currency swindle. An auditors' report on the affair, prepared in time for this week's annual shareholders' meeting, largely cleared the management of Volkswagen of blame. But "mud sticks," said Gavin Launder, an analyst with Scrimgeour Vickers in London. (See index on ECRA) The financial daily, Boersenzeitung, wrote in a commentary: "More devastating than the losses linked to the currency scandal is the resulting loss of image for the company." VW had to make provisions of 473 mln marks to cover losses from unauthorised foreign exchange deals which the auditors, Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft, said highlighted major gaps in the supervisory apparatus of the firm's financial department. The auditors' report highlighted failings in VW's controlling system, especially in relation to a 385 mln mark deal with the Hungarian National Bank, but shed little light on why they were made. It said the contracts did not benefit VW and were only advantageous to its banks. It did not detail how the foreign exchange dealers may have profitted. It concluded: "The nature, scope and technical construction of the deals ... Suggest a targeted and professionally executed manipulation to the detriment of VW." The head of the finance department, Rolf Selowsky, resigned days after the scandal broke in March. He is not accused of any wrongdoing, but auditors concluded he had "not applied the necessary diligence in all instances." Two former VW foreign exchange dealers have been arrested. But even VW admits that the report, published last week, revealed important company failings. Peter Frerk, who has temporarily taken over Selowsky's reponsibilities, said the findings were "not a first class acquittal." The currency swindle was a "lamentable event for our company," he told journalists. The auditors said the remaining members of VW's management board and supervisory board had correctly fulfilled their obligations, a verdict which almost certainly means that major West German banks, who vote on behalf of large numbers of shareholders, will ratify both boards at the July 2 meeting. Many market analysts, especially in London, do not believe a sharp rise in VW's share price last week reflects a major reassessment of the firm on the basis of the auditors' report. The stock closed at 430 marks on Friday, up 11 pct from a week earlier. Dealers referrred to short-term bargain-hunting, and one London broker said "I'm not sure it's much of a bargain." Most brokers said they would not recommend clients to buy at these levels. Analysts believe VW will do well to match its 1986 group net profit of 582 mln marks this year, and one broker in London said the company would be lucky to report profits only 15 pct down. VW is expected to fare very well both in its home market and in Europe. But sales have fallen sharply in the U.S and Brazil, where the latest price freeze could exacerbate results even further. The company hopes to benefit in the long term from its takeover of the Spanish company SEAT, but this subsidiary is still producing losses. VW has also just announced a deal to build light pick-up trucks with Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> at an under-utilised plant in Hanover, but analysts noted production here was only expected to take off fully in 1990. REUTER 
DEGUSSA PLANS ONE-FOR-FIVE RIGHTS ISSUE

Degussa AG <DGSG.F> said it planned a one-for-five rights issue at 225 marks per share, raising nominal share capital by 61 mln marks, by the end of its current business year ending September 30. The company said in a statement it would also raise nominal share capital by 20 mln marks in a share swap as part of its planned takeover of French medicine group <Laboratoires Sarget SA>. The two capital measures will raise Degussa nominal share capital to 365 mln marks. Degussa said last week it intended to buy 100 pct of the capital of the medical pharmaceuticals group Sarget, based in Merignac near Bordeaux. Sarget had 1986 sales in France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain, Portugal and Italy of 730 mln French francs. Degussa has not said how much it would pay for Sarget, but 20 mln marks nominal of 50-mark shares, at today's Frankfurt opening price of 494.70 marks, would be worth nearly 198 mln marks. A 61 mln mark nominal capital increase at 225 marks would raise 274.5 mln marks. Degussa said the 20 mln mark nominal capital increase would take the form of an issue of shares for a non-cash consideration. The April 10 annual meeting agreed that there would be no rights issue on this capital, which was already authorized but unissued. The rights issue involving the 61 mln mark nominal capital increase will be led by Dresdner Bank AG. Following that capital increase, Degussa would be left with 19 mln marks of authorized but unissued capital, a Degussa spokesman said. Part of the 274.5 mln marks from the rights issue would also be used for the Serget acquisition, he added. REUTER 
POEHL SPEAKS AGAINST GERMAN INTEREST RATE CUT

Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said West Germany would be badly advised to lower interest rates and that he believed the economy would continue to recover after a six-month lull. Asked by the newspaper Bild am Sonntag if lower interest rates could boost the domestic economy, Poehl said: "We would be badly advised if we forced further interest rate cuts. "This could, under certain circumstances, release new inflationary fears which would then be more likely to lead to higher interest rates," he added. Poehl said Germany had practically no growth in the past six months because of the mark's surge and the cold winter. "But since April, statistics clearly show that the economy finds itself on a course of growth," he said. "I expect this development to continue in the coming months." Asked about his expectations of a U.S.-European Community trade war, Poehl said such an event would be disastrous. "For this reason we in Europe must avoid everything used by protectionist forces in the U.S. As pretexts," he added. "This includes...Eliminating existing restrictions in the EC as far as possible. Protectionism is not found only in the U.S." Reuter 
HENKEL EXPECTS HIGHER 1987 TURNOVER, PROFIT

Henkel KGaA <HNKG.F> expects 1987 world group turnover and profit to exceed 1986 levels as recent acquisitions should compensate for the negative impact of the strong mark, managing board chairman Helmut Sihler said. He told the annual meeting that based on Henkel's performance so far, the profit increase would be "not insignificant." World group sales rose six pct in the first five months this year compared with the same 1986 period but group turnover rose only two pct because of currency factors, he said. Sihler said the profit increase surpassed that of turnover but gave no figure. As reported, group net profit rose 28 pct to 226 mln marks in 1986. World group sales by volume rose six pct but currency factors trimmed group turnover by six pct to 8.7 billion marks. Sihler said the 1986 profit/sales ratio of 2.6 pct should rise further this year. Sihler said turnover grew more or less equally in all sectors. As reported, the 1986 dividend on ordinary voting shares rose to 4.50 marks from 3.50 in 1985 while the dividend on non-voting preference shares increased to 7.50 marks compared with three marks for six months of 1985. REUTER 
EIB LAUNCHES 200 MLN MARKS BULLET BOND

The European Investment Bank is raising 200 mln marks through an eight-year bullet eurobond carrying a 6-1/8 pct coupon and priced at 99-1/2 pct to yield 6.21 pct at issue, lead manager Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale said. Payment date is July 16, the bond pays interest on that date annually, and matures on that date in 1995. Fees total 1-3/4 pct, with 5/8 for underwriting and management and 1-1/8 for selling. Denominations are 1,000 and 10,000 marks and the bond will be listed in Duesseldorf and Frankfurt. REUTER 
FRANCO-GERMAN PARLEY FAILS TO UNBLOCK FARM TALKS

A specially convened Franco-German meeting in the sidelines of a summit of EC leaders failed to make any progress over a 1987-88 farm price package that has deeply split the two former EC allies, diplomats said The meeting was attended by farm ministers and foreign ministers from both countries and by French President Francois Mitterand, his Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, and by Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany. The stalemate over farm prices is seen as a key to providing a solution to a long-term settlement of the Community's worst-ever budget crisis. "The Germans clearly do not want to budge," an aide to Chirac told reporters. He added the French Prime Minister was visibly angered as he the hour-long meeting. Bonn and Paris are diametrically opposed to a proposal for the Brussels Executive Commission to overhaul radically the EC's complex "green" currrency system, designed to translate common EC farm prices into national currencies. Paris also supports a move for an oils and fats tax which West Germany is against, along with Britain, Denmark and the Netherlands. EC farm minsters are due to resume negotiations on the package, which should have been agreed by an April 1 deadline tomorrow. Diplomats said it had been hoped that the summit could have injected fresh impetus into those talks. The Commission proposed its package to save one billion dollars on the EC's ever-rising farm budget. The summit has been dominated by lengthy talks on moves to alter the entire system of financing the 12-nation group, and plugging a 5.7 billion dollar budget shortfall for 1987. Reuter 
W.GERMAN CAR OUTPUT, EXPORTS RISES IN SEPTEMBER

West German car and van production rose in September to 407,600 from 386,000 in September 1986, while exports climbed to 226,300 from 218,200, the German Automobile Industry Association VDA said. The association added that incoming domestic orders in September were above, and foreign orders roughly equal, to those in September last year. Car and van production rose in the first nine months of the year to 3.25 mln from 3.19 mln. But exports fell to 1.80 mln from 1.85 mln Output of light trucks fell in September to 13,200 from 14,700, while heavy truck production was unchanged at 10,100. Over the nine month period, light truck production fell to 109,300 from 129,200, while heavy truck production dipped to 83,800 from 84,700. Exports of light trucks fell in September to 7,800 from 9,000 and to 66,600 from 84,300 in the first nine months. Exports of heavy trucks rose to 5,500 in September from 4,600 in September last year and to 47,800 from 45,300 in the first nine months. REUTER 
POEHL SAYS RATE RISES ARE CAUSE FOR CONCERN

Rises in West German and international interest rates are a cause for concern and the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market rates, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said. "We consider the interest rate increase that has occurred here and internationally to be a problem and cause for concern," Poehl told an investment conference. "I would like to stress that the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market rates," he said. Shortly after Poehl spoke, the Bundesbank announced a tender for a securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct. Previous tenders over the last month by interest rate have seen the allocation rate on these facilities rise to 3.85 pct at last week's pact from 3.60 on the last fixed-rate tender in late September. The Bundesbank's reduction of the key allocation rate to 3.80 from 3.85 pct was heralded Monday by repeated injections of money market liquidity at between 3.70 and 3.80 pct. These moves to cap interest rates followed a meeting between Poehl, Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker Monday in Frankfurt. Officials said afterwards the three men had reaffirmed their commitment to the Louvre accord on currency stability. Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of the tightening in West German monetary policy had prompted a sharp fall of the dollar on speculation that Louvre cooperation had ended. But the dollar rallied on news of Monday's meeting in nervous trading to trade above 1.79 marks Tuesday. Poehl said that the recent rise in interest rates was not due to central bank policy, but to markets' expectations, and currency developments. Commenting on the inflationary expectations, Poehl said "You have to get to the root of the problem, you have to pursue a policy which reveals that there are no grounds for such fears." The inflationary fears were unjustified and exaggerated, he said. Poehl rebuffed recent U.S. Criticism of West Germany, saying the Bundesbank had made a substantial contribution to international cooperation in interest and monetary policy. The Bundesbank has tolerated an overshooting of its money supply target, arousing criticism from other quarters, he said. "Today we still have lower interest rates than at the end of 1986... Quite the contrary of other countries, where interest rates have risen substantially more," Poehl said. This had to be taken into account when considering recent rises in repurchase pact allocation rates, which were due to rising international money market rates that had spilled over into the German market, he said. Poehl expressed surprise that financial markets had so far ignored improvements in the U.S. Deficits. "The adjustment process in the U.S. Trade balance is definitely underway," he said, noting that this was not so noticeable in absolute figures. The spectacular improvement in the budget deficit had also attracted little attention, he said. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG SAYS GLOBAL SHARE CRASH OVERDONE

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the global share price crash was overdone and unfounded. Stoltenberg was speaking at a press conference. REUTER 
 Stoltenberg says Louvre accord vital to West Germany



GERMAN NEW CAR REGISTRATIONS RISE IN SEPTEMBER

West German new car registrations rose four pct last month compared with September 1986, and were 28 pct higher than August's figure, the Federal Motor Office said. September new car registrations totalled 234,518, up from 225,581 in the same month a year ago and from 183,224 in August. In the first nine months of this year, new car registrations rose 2.9 pct to 2.18 mln from 2.12 mln during January/September 1986. Total vehicle registrations in the period rose to 2.42 mln from 2.35 mln in January/September last year. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG AGREES WITH POEHL ON INFLATION OUTLOOK

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said that there were absolutely no signs of current dangers to price stability in West Germany. He was speaking at a news conference shortly after Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told a conference in Frankfurt that inflationary fears, which have been responsible for recent interest rate increases, were unjustified and exaggerated. Reuter 
OILMEAL DEMAND STILL STRONG IN U.S., SOVIET UNION

Oilmeal demand remained strong in the United States in July and August and six pct up on levels seen in the same months last year, with most of the rise coming in soymeal, the Hamburg based publication Oil World said. Total U.S domestic usage of the nine major oilmeals rose to a record 19 mln tonnes in October 1986/August 1987, up 4.2 pct on the same year-ago period, with the increase in soymeal at seven pct, it said. Soviet soymeal demand rose by 310,000 tonnes in July and 330,000 tonnes in August over the respective year-ago months following a huge increase in soymeal imports. Oil World presumed some imports were not used immediately but went into stocks. With imports again large in September, it estimated Soviet soymeal stocks sharply up at 800,000 tonnes by October 1 from around 130,000 at the same time last year. EC oilmeal demand rose 100,000 tonnes in August from a year earlier, with soymeal up 45,000 tonnes. Crushings of rapeseed, sunseed and soybeans will probably rise from last year due to bumper EC crops. It estimated the EC rapeseed crop at a record 5.9 mln tonnes, up from 3.7 mln last year. Rapeseed disposals were reported at 2.1 mln tonnes by September 20 against 1.4 mln at that time last year. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKING PANEL SAYS SHARE FALL EXAGGERATED

Monday's international share crash was exaggerated and did not reflect economic fundamentals, Wolfgang Roeller, president of the West German banking association BDB said in a statement. "A comparison with the (Wall Street crash of) 1929 is totally inappropriate," Roeller, also chief executive of Dresdner Bank AG, said. The world economy was growing and dangers of inflation were being held in check. The recent International Monetary Fund and World meetings confirmed the positive forecasts for global economic development. Therefore, there were no rational reasons for a sharp tightening of monetary policy nor for a continued rise in interest rates, Roeller said. "This applies in particular to West Germany," he said. As a result, Roeller expected the markets to calm. They would not ignore long-term economic factors. International cooperation on currencies established by the Louvre accord and strengthened by Monday's meeting between U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl, would stand the test, he added. REUTER 
AEG TO REORGANIZE ENERGY BUSINESS

Electrical engineering group AEG AG <AEGG.F>, in which Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> has a majority, is reorganizing its energy business, AEG said in a statement. AEG will invest 250 mln marks over the next three years in a new turbines, electrical machinery and power station plant division, which will include its <AEG Kanis GmbH> subsidiary. The investment includes a new turbine factory for AEG Kanis in Essen, and the restructuring of AEG's Nuremberg works into a specialized components and rotor factory. The project is part of the Daimler group's energy technology strategy, AEG said. Reuter 
EC STATES ATTACK PLAN TO PENALISE FARMERS

EC agriculture ministers attacked plans to penalise farmers immediately it becomes clear that cereals output is above standard norms, EC sources said. They said this was the major criticism raised at a meeting of ministers which discussed Commission proposals for curbing spending on the cereals regime. The Commission wants powers to cut guaranteed prices or raise the coresponsibility levy if output next harvest rises above 155 mln tonnes. The sources said several ministers complained that changing price levels in the middle of a season would severely damage the financial security of farmers. But an EC Commission spokesman said farm commissioner Frans Andriessen told them producers could not be guaranteed security regardless of market circumstances. The sources said there was a general acceptance of the need for some output ceilings. However, the French and Dutch ministers called for a maximum output for a wider range of cereal crops, rather than for cereals alone. The sources added West Germany wanted production ceilings for individual countries with excess production being paid for from national exchequers, but received no support for this idea. British farm minister John MacGregor told reporters he detected more support for his position against the penalties on farmers being administered through higher coresponsibility levies. He said he believes increasing the levies would do nothing to increase EC cereals consumption whereas lower prices for farmers could help in this direction. Reuter 
ASEA BROWN BOVERI SETS GROUP STRUCTURE

Asea AB <ASEA.ST> said the group to be formed by its merger with Switzerland's BBC AG Brown Boveri und Cie <BBCZ.Z> would have four main business areas; power plants, power transmission, power distribution and industrial equipment. Asea Brown Boveri Ltd's international markets would continue to be run by decentralised management, and the three main home markets, Switzerland, West Germany and Sweden, would continue to play an important role, Asea said in a statement. It said research and development were crucial to the group's future and central reasearch resources and laboratories in the three home markets would be strengthened. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD NEWS CONFERENCE THURSDAY

The Bundesbank will not hold a news conference after its regular fortnightly central bank council meeting on Thursday, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. The council is meeting in West Berlin, where it meets once a year. It also meets once a year in another German city. These meetings outside Frankfurt are traditionally followed by a news conference. The spokesman declined to comment further. In Bonn a finance ministry spokesman said Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg would take part in the meeting in West Berlin. His participation was arranged long ago, he added. REUTER 
VW SAYS AUTOLATINA TO LOSE 500 MLN MARKS IN 1987

Autolatina, Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> and Ford Motor Co's <F> Latin American joint venture, was expected to make losses of 500 mln marks from Brazilian operations in 1987, VW spokesman Ortwin Witzel said. He could not comment on a report in the Frankfurter Rundschau daily that Ford might pull out of the venture, set up in 1986 to incorporate VW's and Ford's Brazilian and Argentine operations. Ford holds 49 pct of Autolatina. Witzel blamed Autolatina's losses on Brazil's government price restrictions but said the losses were in line with expectations. VW's Brazil unit lost 258 mln marks in 1986. Reuter 
PUMA FIRST-HALF LOSS ABOUT 14 MLN MARKS

Puma AG Rudolf Dassler Sport <PUMA.F> said it posted a 1987 first-half group loss of about 14 mln marks, of which the largest portion was in the U.S. Managing board chairman Armin Dassler told the annual shareholders' meeting parent company turnover was expected to fall to 650 mln marks over the whole year from 698.4 mln in 1986. No comparative figure for 1986 first half group loss was available. In the whole of 1986 Puma posted a group consolidated loss of 41.05 mln marks. Dassler said Puma hoped to improve performance in the U.S. This year, where heavy losses were mainly responsible for the 1986 deficit. He said Puma expected to post a group loss in the second half of this year but the shortfall would be lower than in the first half. The same applied to expected parent company losses, he added. Dassler said Puma had taken measures to improve future performance. Dassler said the measures included changing Puma's product range, closing down some unprofitable factories in West Germany and France and introducing general cost-cutting. He said Puma hoped to break even in 1988 in the U.S., Its most important export market. Dassler said a personal payment he would make to shareholders instead of a 1986 dividend was a goodwill gesture which would not be repeated. Dassler said the payment to holders of Puma's 280,000 non-voting preference shares would amount to about 1.2 mln marks, or 4.50 marks per share. Armin Dassler and his brother Gerd hold all of Puma's 720,000 ordinary voting shares. They offered the preference shares to the public in July last year. Dassler said shareholders would benefit if Puma improved performance next year. He did not elaborate. Dassler said he and his brother were planning to leave the managing board and join the supervisory board. He said he was leaving for health reasons and because he wanted to make way for a new chairman from outside the company. His successor has not been made known yet. Dassler said today's meeting was expected to approve Manfred Emcke as Puma's new supervisory board chairman, replacing Vinzenz Grothgar. REUTER 

JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES FALL 0.4 PCT IN JANUARY

Japan's unadjusted consumer price index (base 1985) fell 0.4 pct to 99.7 in January from the previous month, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The fall compares with a decline of 0.2 pct in December. The January index compared with a year earlier was down 1.1 pct, the first drop larger than 1.0 pct since it fell 1.3 pct in September 1958. Food costs rose in January from December but prices fell for clothing, footwear and utilities, causing the overall decline for the month. Housing, medical and educations costs increased in January compared with a year earlier but the cost of utilities, gasoline and vegetables fell. The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area (base 1985) was down 0.1 pct in mid-February from a month earlier at 100.2, reflecting lower prices for food, clothing and footwear. Compared with a year earlier, the index was down 0.7 pct due to lower vegetable, fuel oil and utility costs. REUTER 
JAPAN MARCH BOND COUPON SEEN UNCHANGED AT FIVE PCT

The Finance Ministry has proposed informally to its bond underwriting syndicate that the coupon on the January 10-year government bond remain unchanged from February at five pct, underwriting sources said. They said the ministry wants a 0.50 yen raise in issue price from February to 99.50 to yield a record low 5.075 pct. The 5.151 pct February bond issue yield was itself a record low. The proposed issue volume is 475 billion yen against the 600 billion in February. The underwriting syndicate is likely to accept the proposed terms immediately, the sources said. REUTER 
AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK

Average interest rates on yen certificates of deposit, CD, fell to 4.27 pct in the week ended February 25 from 4.32 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japan said. New rates (previous in brackets), were - Average CD rates all banks 4.27 pct (4.32) Money Market Certificate, MMC, ceiling rates for the week starting from March 2 3.52 pct (3.57) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks Less than 60 days 4.33 pct (4.32) 60-90 days 4.13 pct (4.37) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks 90-120 days 4.35 pct (4.30) 120-150 days 4.38 pct (4.29) 150-180 days unquoted (unquoted) 180-270 days 3.67 pct (unquoted) Over 270 days 4.01 pct (unquoted) Average yen bankers' acceptance rates of city, trust and long-term banks 30 to less than 60 days unquoted (4.13) 60-90 days unquoted (unquoted) 90-120 days unquoted (unquoted) REUTER 
JAPAN EXPECTED TO CUT BASE RATE FOR STATE BODIES

Japan is expected to cut the base lending rate for state financial institutions to 5.5 pct from 6.2 as part of the recent pact by major industrial nations in Paris, Finance Ministry sources said. They said the cut is based on a revision of the Trust Fund Bureau Law, which should be approved by parliament on March 3, abolishing the 6.05 pct minimum interest rate on deposits with the bureau. The bureau channels funds to government financial institutions for public works and other official uses, they said. The base lending rate for state bodies such as the Japan Development Bank, People's Finance Corp and the finance corporations of local public enterprises usually moves in tandem with long-term prime rates, the sources said. However, it was impossible for them to follow the last cut, to 5.8 pct from 6.2 pct on January 28, because the Trust Fund Bureau rate was legally set at 6.05 pct. The ministry will abolish the minimum rate and introduce a market-related one to resolve the problem and stimulate the domestic economy, they said. On Tuesday, the ministry allowed long-term bankers to cut their prime to a record low of 5.5 pct, effective February 28. The move suggested it had reached agreement with depositors using the bureau, the postal savings system of the Posts and Telecommunications Ministry and the Japan welfare annuity of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the sources said. These ministries are trying to determine which market rates should be considered when setting the bureau's deposit rate, the ministry sources said. Coupon rates on new 10-year government bonds, minus 0.1 percentage points, is the likeliest choice, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN HOUSE BUDGET TALKS TO REOPEN NEXT WEEK

Japan's ruling and opposition parties agreed to reopen talks on the budget for the fiscal year ending March 31 1988 when the Lower House Budget Committee meets next Tuesday, a parliamentary official said. He said officials of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party and the opposition parties agreed at a meeting of the committee's board of directors. Strong opposition objection to government tax reform proposals including a controversial sales tax has delayed deliberation by the Lower House Budget Committee. REUTER 
TOKYO GRAIN EXCHANGE TO RAISE MARGIN REQUIREMENTS

The Tokyo Grain Exchange said it will raise the margin requirement on the spot and nearby month for U.S. And Chinese soybeans and red beans, effective March 2. Spot April U.S. Soybean contracts will increase to 90,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 70,000 now. Other months will stay unchanged at 70,000, except the new distant February requirement, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2. Chinese spot March will be set at 110,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 90,000. The exchange said it raised spot March requirement to 130,000 yen on contracts outstanding at March 13. Chinese nearby April rises to 90,000 yen from 70,000. Other months will remain unchanged at 70,000 yen except new distant August, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2. The new margin for red bean spot March rises to 150,000 yen per 2.4 tonne lot from 120,000 and to 190,000 for outstanding contracts as of March 13. The nearby April requirement for red beans will rise to 100,000 yen from 60,000, effective March 2. The margin money for other red bean months will remain unchanged at 60,000 yen, except new distant August, for which the requirement will also be set at 60,000 from March 2. REUTER 
CHINA TO BORROW 390 MLN DLRS

China will receive loans totalling 390 mln dlrs from Japan and the World Bank for investment in new highways and port facilities. The Japan Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund is to provide 260 mln dlrs towards China"s plans to improve its road network, the official New China News Agency reported. A 130 mln dlr World Bank loan will be used to build 12 new berths incorporating container handling systems at the northeast China port of Tianjin, the agency said. It gave no details of the repayment terms of the loans. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS JUMPS

Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus in the first 20 days of February jumped to 3.58 billion dlrs from 1.94 billion a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said. The February interim surplus was sharply up from a 965.04 mln dlr surplus in the same January period. FOB exports rose 14.6 pct from a year earlier in the first 20 days of February to 10.91 billion, while CIF imports fell 3.2 pct to 7.33 billion. The average dollar/yen rates were 152.32 for exports and 152.31 for imports against 196.61 for exports and 196.27 for imports a year earlier. REUTER 
NIPPON LIGHT METAL CONTINUES ALUMINIUM OUTPUT CUT

Nippon Light Metal Co Ltd <NLGT.T>, which has annual capacity of 63,000 tonnes, will continue primary aluminium production at a rate of 35,000 tonnes owing to low domestic and world prices and low water supplies at its hydroelectric power plant, a company official said. Nippon, which has no plans to restore output to the 48,000 tonnes a year at which it was working until late 1986, will become Japan's only smelter. <Ryoka Light Metal Industries Ltd> will stop smelting in April owing to high power costs and low prices, and <Mitsui Aluminium Co Ltd> has said it stopped smelting in February. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY RESERVES RECORD 51.73 BILLION DLRS

Japan's external reserves rose to a record 51.73 billion dlrs at the end of February from the previous record of 51.46 billion at end-January, the Finance Ministry said. End-February reserves last year were 27.58 billion dlrs. In January, the nation's foreign reserves showed the largest-ever monthly increase at 9.22 billion dlrs due to massive Bank of Japan dollar buying intervention during the month as the dollar fell briefly to an all-time low of 149.98 yen on January 19, foreign exchange dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN PLANS MORE FLEXIBLE CORPORATE BOND ISSUES

Japanese securities houses will issue new corporate bonds more quickly, accept issue requests throughout the month instead of at month-end and introduce a competitive underwriting method from April 1, to bring Japanese firms back to the Tokyo bond market, securities managers said. Domestic issues have slowed to a trickle as more and more companies turn to more flexible overseas markets for cash, but the proposed moves are expected to pave the way for a review of public bond issues, they said. "Relaxation of issue rules would be better applied not only to straight corporate bonds, but also convertible bonds and warrant bonds, to call back issuers effectively from overseas markets," a Nikko Securities house bond manager said. Securities houses will launch an issue about 10 days after a corporate declaration of intent instead of 25 days as now, the securities managers said. Underwriters are expected to abolish the lump-sum issuance system, in which all corporate bonds are issued at month-end, and accept issue requests during the month, they said. Securities houses also plan to introduce free competition among underwriters when negotiating with issuers over terms in order to better reflect the market, securities managers said. Market participants expect the new issue methods to be applied beginning in April, with the projected issue by <Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp>. The so-called proposal method abolishes the practice of taking lead-managership and enables more market-oriented decisions on terms, securities sources said. The four major Japanese securities houses now take turns underwriting corporate bonds. Setting issue terms using financial criteria prepared by securities houses and in reference to coupon rates on latest public bonds is now almost automatic, they said. The new moves are based on wide-ranging proposals made in late December by advisers to Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa. They were aimed at revitalising the domestic corporate bond market, securities house managers said. The finance ministry, commissioned banks and securities houses agreed in January to lower the eligibility ceiling for companies wanting to issue non-collateral straight and convertible bonds from March 1, securities managers said. The cut will more than double the number of corporations able to make non-collateral issues from around 70 for straight bonds and 180 for convertibles now, securities managers said. The Bond Market Committee of the Securities Exchange Council also recommended introduction of a shelf registration system, more use of corporate ratings systems and simplification of disclosure rules to help speed up the issuing process, securities sources said. It also called for a major review of the commissioned bank system, which increases the cost of issuing domestic bonds, and for deregulation of private placements, they said. Some of these proposals are likely to take some time to put into effect, the sources said. A shelf registration system would need a revision of Japanese commercial law, expected in 1988, the sources said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS SOME 95,000 TONNES SOYBEANS FROM CHINA

Japanese importers bought some 95,000 tonnes of Chinese soybeans late last month for May to September shipment, under the semi-annual trade accords, trade sources said. The FOB premium rose to 13.50 dlrs per tonne, up 2.50 dlrs from the premium for the November to April shipment, but down from 13.80 for the last May to September shipment. Flat prices for Chinese beans are based on futures prices in Chicago plus the FOB premium. Japanese purchases of Chinese soybeans, including spot buying, may have totalled 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes of the 1986 crop for November to April 1987 shipment, down from some 300,000 tonnes the previous year, the sources said. Domestic demand for edible-use soybeans is expected to remain stable at about 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes a year, the sources said. In recent years Japanese importers have overbought Chinese edible-use soybeans and sold the surplus to domestic crushers, but low 1986 U.S. Crop prices have discouraged the purchase of Chinese origin beans for crushing, they said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS COOL ON NIGERIAN DEBT TALKS

Japanese banks are expected to give Nigerian debt negotiators a cool response when they arrive here tomorrow for talks, banking sources said. "We're not very enthusiastic about Nigeria's debt rescheduling," said a senior official at a leading Japanese bank. A team of Nigerian officials will meet with Japanese creditor banks here later this week to seek Japanese support for a proposed refinancing of part of Nigeria's 19 billion dlr foreign debt, bankers said. The senior bank official said a majority of Japanese bank creditors are unwilling to provide any new credits to Nigeria although about 80 pct have reluctantly agreed to accept rescheduling of part of their existing loans. "The problem is Nigeria has so far neglected us Japanese creditors and we have yet to receive a clear-cut picture of the nation's debt situation," said another Japanese bank official. He said Japanese bankers were unaware of the exact extent of Western commercial bank exposure to Nigeria and were uncertain about the proposed refinancing package details. Some 21 Japanese banks have loans outstanding to Nigeria, representing about four pct of the credit extended by Western commercial institutions, banking sources said. They said Nigeria would probably request about 320 mln dlrs in fresh private bank money and rescheduling of some 1.4 to 1.5 billion dlrs in existing loans due in 1986 and 1987. Japanese banks want Nigeria to make clear its debt repayment scheme as well as its economic reconstruction plans during the two-day meeting here, the sources added. "Otherwise, our response will be very negative," the senior official said. Banking sources said some 80 pct of international creditor banks involved have responded positively to the Nigerian debt proposal. Bank of Japan officials said they hope Japanese commercial banks will help Nigeria overcome its debt problems. Barclays Bank plc <BCS.L> has the most exposure to Nigeria's debt and is chairing a bank steering committee looking at the problem, the banking sources said. BankAmerica Corp <BAC.N> is coordinating private bank creditors in the Far East and representing them on the committee, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN SALES TAX MAY FORCE NAKASONE OUT OF OFFICE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is likely to leave office this summer amid opposition to his controversial tax-reform package, political analysts said. They said Nakasone's reputation as a skilled politician has suffered irreparable damage from his support of a five pct sales tax planned for January 1988. "Nakasone is trying to carry out a drastic tax reform at the end of his administration, which is not only impossible but also is very irresponsible as a politican," Rei Shiratori, professor of politics at Dokkyo University, told Reuters. "Nakasone will almost certainly step down as soon as parliament approves the sales tax, probably in the summer," Shiratori said. Some ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) members of parliament have spoken against the tax, which Nakasone says is needed to balance planned cuts in income and corporate taxes. Nakasone today called for disciplinary action against LDP members who oppose the tax. "There are some who are objecting because of their constituencies," he told a meeting of government and party leaders. "If the party discipline is broken, I would like to see punishment considered." "A proposed sales tax has become a political issue, partly because Nakasone breached his election pledge against introducing it," Shiratori said. "Moreover, the tax is being introduced when the public feels uncertainty about the sluggish economy stemming from the yen's appreciation and about the future when the Japanese society is rapidly aging," he said. Political analysts said the controversial tax could affect the more than 2,500 local elections scheduled for April, involving governors, mayors, town and village heads and assemblies at all levels. But the situation is complicated, since opposition parties excluding the communists sometimes put up joint candidates with the LDP, the political analysts added. Shiratori said, "In the worst case, implementation of the sales tax, now scheduled for next January, may be put off for some time before the government makes a final decision. "Another alternative is to modify the planned five pct to perhaps three pct. "A third alternative for the government is to ram through the bills only with the attendance of LDP MPs," he said. Seizaburo Sato, professor of politics at Tokyo University, thought the last possibility most likely. "I think the LDP alone will take a vote on the tax bills," he said. The LDP now holds 304 seats in the 512-seat Lower House and 143 in the 252-seat Upper House. To lure opposition parties back to parliament after the LDP pushes through the tax bills, the Nakasone cabinet will have to resign, Sato said. "Boycotting opposition members will be more willing to return to parliament if a new cabinet has been formed," he said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO PROMOTE INTEREST RATE LIBERALISATION

The Bank of Japan decided at a policy board meeting to promote further interest rate liberalisation by lowering the minimum denomination of regulation-free large deposits and by raising the interest rate ceiling on money market certificates (MMCs), a central bank official said. The new guideline will go into effect on April 6, the bank said. Under the guideline, the minimum denomination of regulation-free large deposits will be lowered to 100 mln yen from 300 mln. The interest rate ceiling of MMCs with maturities of between one year and two years will be set at 0.5 percentage point below the prevailing certificate of deposit rate, the bank said. But the ceiling on MMCs with maturities of one year or less will remain the same, or 0.75 percentage point below the CD rates. The minimum denomination of MMCs will be lowered to 10 mln yen from 30 mln. The bank also said time deposit rates will be lowered by 0.37 point, effective March 16, in line with the half-point cut in the official discount rate on February 23. New interest rates on two-year and one-year deposits at banks, for example, will be 3.64 pct and 3.39 pct per annum, respectively. Demand deposit rates, however, will remain the same. REUTER 
DIGITAL AUDIO TAPE PLAYERS GO ON SALE IN JAPAN

Japanese consumers hesitated about buying the controversial digital audio tape player (DAT) as it went on sale in Tokyo today, but said the DAT player's near-perfect sound will make it a success once it becomes cheaper. "The sound is great, but I'll wait until more machines hit the market and prices fall to about 100,000 yen before buying one," said Terumi Fujitsuka, 35, a steel firm employee. Aiwa, Sharp and Matsushita displayed their DAT players today although delivery will take about two weeks, retailers said. Aiwa's machine, the cheapest, is listed at 188,000 yen. Machines by Sony, Hitachi, Toshiba and others will appear as early as the end of March, industry sources said. DAT players can play back and record with fidelity superior to even a compact disc. They use a cassette half the size of the standard audio cassette and unlike conventional analogue machines, they can make copies an infinite number of times with almost no loss of sound quality. This aroused fears in the music industry of widespread tape piracy and loss of royalties. In negotiations that delayed the DAT player's debut, the industry demanded anti-piracy circuitry be built into the machines. Machines sold in Japan are fitted with a computer chip to prevent copying through a digital signal. But copies can still be made if the signal is routed through a regular amplifier. "Nobody can tell the difference," one salesman said. DAT players have been kept off Western markets and some countries are considering banning them or imposing heavy duties unless tougher anti-piracy circuitry is added. But Japanese hardware makers, hard pressed for profits in the era of the high yen and growing competition, are eager to carve out a profitable niche. Prices of DAT players will probably fall quickly, possibly to around 70,000 yen by next year as other makers put their products on the market, industry analysts said. They said by 1990, sales could reach six mln units per year. Philips of the Netherlands has said it will launch its DAT player on the world market later this year. REUTER 
OECD SAYS JAPAN RESOLVED TO STIMULATE DEMAND

Japan appears resolved to encourage domestic demand for its goods instead of relying on exports to support its economy, Jean-Claude Paye, Director General of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), told a news conference. Paye has been in Japan exchanging views on problems confronting the world economy and the role of the OECD. He met with Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari, Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita and other high-ranking Japanese officials. Reuter 
JAPAN UNEMPLOYMNENT RISES TO RECORD IN JANUARY

Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.0 pct in January, the worst since the Government started compiling unemployment statistics under its current system in 1953, up from the previous record 2.9 pct in December, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted January unemployment totalled 1.82 mln people, up from 1.61 mln in December and 1.65 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in January remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-worst level set last December. Record male unemployement of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment in January remained at 3.0 pct, equal to the record level marked in April, August, September and December last year. January's record 3.0 pct unemployment rate mainly stemmed from loss of jobs in manufacturing industries, particularly in export-related firms, due to the yen's continuing appreciation against the dollar, officials said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 380,000 from a year earlier to 14.30 mln including 1.83 mln employed in the textile industry, down 190,000 from a year earlier, and 1.06 mln in transport industries such as carmakers and shipbuilders, down 170,000. REUTER 
JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE SEEN RISING TO 3.5 PCT

Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. The economists said the service sector should grow as the government stimulates domestic demand under its program to transform the economy away from exports. Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower than those of other industrialised nations, methods for calculating statistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned. "The three pct figure could translate into a relatively high figure if European methods were used," one economist said. More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from a year earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo's Tsukihara said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS PLAN JOINT FIRM TO AVOID DEBT RISK

Japan's major commercial banks plan to set up a joint company to which they will transfer assets acquired by lending to developing countries to build up a reserve against possible bad loans, a senior official of a major bank told Reuters. He said about 10 banks are likely to finish details of the project in a few weeks. The intent is to avoid risk arising from unrecoverable debt owed by Third World countries, he said. REUTER 
JAPANESE FINANCIAL FUTURES PLAN REVEALED

The Federation of Bankers' Associations of Japan released its proposal for early creation of a comprehensive financial futures market in Tokyo. The market should include a comprehensive range of futures and options trading so Tokyo can develop into a real global money centre where a variety of risk-hedging instruments is available, the proposal said. It should provide currency and interest rate futures, and incorporate the existing yen bond futures and planned stock index futures contracts. The proposal said transactions in all these contracts must be conducted on the same market so participants can readily engage in arbitrage between various financial instruments. To make this possible, the proposal calls for new legislation which would administer all related futures and options transactions under the same legal framework. Banking sources said they expect that initially the currency futures would be dollar-yen and interest futures would include Japanese domestic yen certificates of deposit, three-month Eurodollar deposits and 20-year U.S. Treasury bonds. Banking sources quoted federation chairman Yoshiro Araki as saying he hoped the market would be created as soon as possible because it would help promote the liberalisation of Japan's financial markets. Araki said he had no intention of limiting prospective market participants to banks but was willing to accept those from wider business circles, the sources said. Japan's only current financial futures market, in yen bonds, began on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in October 1985. But the Osaka Stock Exchange plans to start futures trading in a basket of leading stocks in April. REUTER 
PEMEX SIGNS 500 MLN DLR JAPAN LOAN FOR PIPELINE

Mexican state oil firm Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) signed for a 500 mln dlruntied loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan to finance its Pacific Petroleum Project, Pemex Japan representative Tito Ayal said. No further details on the loan were immediately available. Ayala told an oil seminar the project, due for completion in 1988, is aimed at improving distribution of oil products in the domestic market, mainly along the Pacific coast. The project consists of a pipeline linking Nueva Teapa on the Gulf of Mexico with Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast, and construction of the second phase of the Salina Cruz refinery. The project also includes construction of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) storage tanks at Santa Cruz, additional crude oil storage at both ends of the pipeline, an ammonia complex at Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast and expansion of the infrastructure of the port of Salina Cruz, Ayala said. Pemex will buy 80 mln dlrs worth of foreign equipment and materials for the project, he said. The new pipeline will enable Japan to load Mexico's Maya crude oil at Salina Cruz rather than in the Gulf of Mexico. Pemex will also have some LPG surplus available in Salina Cruz that may help Japan diversify its supply sources of that product, he added. REUTER 
AIRBUS SIGNS ONE BILLION DLR JAPANESE CONTRACT

The European <Airbus Industrie> consortium has signed a one billion dlr contract to sell 10 A320 short-haul jets to <All Nippon Airways> of Japan, with an option on the sale of a further 10 planes, an Airbus spokesman said today. The 10 planes on firm order will be delivered between September, 1990 and November, 1991, and will be powered either by CFM-56-5S engines made by the Franco-U.S. <CFM International> consortium, or V2500S engines built by the <International Aero Engine> group. The spokesman declined to comment on a New York Times report that Airbus is about to announce a sale to American Airlines. But industry sources said American was about to announce the purchase of 25 wide-bodied planes from Airbus, as well as 15 747s from Boeing Co <BAN>. Airbus has already signed large deals with Pan Am Corp <PNN>, NWA Inc <NWA> and Eastern Airlines Inc <EALN>, as well as a smaller contract with <Continental Airlines>. The A320 made its first flight on February 22 and is not due to enter commercial service until March next year. The All Nippon purchase brings the total number of commitments to the A320 to 439 from 16 airlines, comprising 275 firm orders and 164 options. REUTER 
JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE SEEN RISING TO 3.5 PCT

Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. Reuter 
JAPAN BUYS 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for April shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
HOKKAIDO BANK ISSUES 30 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

The Hokkaido Bank Ltd is issuing a 30 mln dlr convertible eurobond due March 31, 2002 with an indicated 2-1/4 pct coupon and priced at par, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. Terms will be fixed on March 10, involving a premium of about five pct above a six-day average. The conversion period will run from April 20, 1987 to March 20, 2002. The bonds will be sold in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Total fees of 2-1/2 pct include one pct for management and underwriting and 1-1/2 pct for selling, including an 20 basis point praecipuum. Nomura said the bonds are callable from March 31, 1990 at 104, declining by 1/2 pct per annum. There will be no calls before March 31, 1992 unless the share price reaches at least 150 pct of the conversion price. REUTER 
JAPAN FIRM DEVELOPS ULTRA HEAT-RESISTING RUBBER

Shin-Etsu Chemical Co Ltd said it had developed an ultra thermal resistance rubber which can be used at 250 centigrade continuously without losing its properties. Shin-Etsu put potential demand for the product at two tonnes a month mainly for microwave ovens and as a sealant. But increasing use of the product in parts attached to car engines will raise demand and the company will boost output to 10 tonnes by March 1988 from two now, he said. Reuter 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN LOW GROWTH MODEL

Healthy growth in corporate profits and in consumer spending, the two pillars on which Japan rests its hopes of sustained economic growth, both look rotten at the core, economists polled by Reuters said. Profits and domestic consumption are meant to replace exports as the engine of growth. But close ties between corporate performance and wages mean that the alternative economic model promises little but slower growth, they said. Falling profits may lead to falling incomes, which in turn will cut sales and further reduce profits. The Bank of Japan said in its latest outlook that improved terms of trade linked to the strong yen would help domestic demand grow steadily. However, this would happen only if household spending increased in line with the value of real financial assets due to stable prices, and/or if corporate investment recovered as profits from domestic sales improved compared with those from exports. "No clear sign of such developments has so far been evidenced," the central bank said. Poor business prospects are the reason why economic growth will be slow, even though Japan's terms of trade have improved sharply due to the strong yen. Economist David Pike of Phillips and Drew estimates that in 1986 unit cost prices fell 30 pct while output prices fell only eight pct, giving a large price margin advantage in the domestic market -- as long as companies did not pass that advantage on to the consumer. Last year's gap of almost 10 percentage points between the fall in the wholesale price index and the slight drop in consumer prices shows that gains from the improved terms of trade have been kept as profits by producers and distributors. The economists, however, believe this layer of fat will protect companies for only a short while. As more firms seek more profits at home instead of abroad, already fierce domestic competition will increase, fueled by lower-priced imports. Retail prices will fall. Profit margins will suffer. A December survey by top business organisation Keidanren confirms this dim view is taken by the firms themselves. Of companies polled in the key manufacturing sector, almost 80 pct thought the high yen would create a drop in production volume and 60 pct predicted a drop in corporate performance, said Keidanren economist Kazuyuki Kinbara. Main counter-measures cited by the firms include cutting unprofitable operations, reducing work to sub-contractors (which employ significant numbers of workers), holding down wages, and reducing bonuses. The government has said it fears unemployment could soon double from three pct now. Unemployment and slow wage growth will obviously hurt sales. But reduced bonuses, and worries about individual financial security could be even more damaging. Twice a year, bonuses provide wage earners with what amounts to an enforced lump sum in savings, encouraging them to buy large consumer products and sparking a sales bonanza. To save funds, some big firms have begun a form of tied bonus, forcing employees to spend it on the firm's own goods. Economists also predict Japanese will not save less than the average 16 pct of salary they do now. On the contrary, a poor outlook and lower disposable income could strengthen the resolve to put money aside for old age and illness, education, and housing -- the main drains on the working man's salary. The last government survey of public opinion said over 80 pct of citizens will continue to economise. Japan has a rapidly ageing population and minimal social security and its workers fear poverty in their old age. Faced with such a vicious circle, the government's reflationary strategies are severely limited. The commitment by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party and Finance Ministry to cut the state debt has resulted in small supplementary budgets and attempts to provide fiscal incentive without reducing revenue. Independent economists have been less than excited at the results. Provision for monetary stimulus is similarly limited. The 2.5 pct discount rate is so low it is politically impossible to cut it further, with the basic bank savings rate at only 0.25 pct, Bank of Tokyo economist Haruo Muto said. Almost 60 pct of Japanese still hold their savings in some kind of deposit, official figures show. Moves to directly inject liquidity are unproductive while firms are planning cuts in capital investment. The central bank is well aware that soaring stock and land prices are the only current results of high liquidity. Fear of inflation also limits policy options. Political analysts ascribe Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's 1986 big election victory largely to a long period of almost zero price inflation. And he found this year that attempts to impose a sales tax to offset tax cuts arouses fierce voter opposition. REUTER 
TAIWAN SHIPBUILDER LOOKS FOR JAPANESE VENTURES

Taiwan's state-owned China Shipbuilding Corp (CSBC) plans to seek joint production agreements with Japan and further diversify into ship repairing to try to trim its debts, chairman Louis Lo said. He told Reuters in an interview that CSBC's first joint production venture, to build two hulls for <Onomichi Dockyard Co Ltd>, was a success. Talks on similar projects have been held with other Japanese firms, including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Co Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T>, he said. Lo said CSBC delivered the hulls of two 2,200-TEU (twenty foot equivalent unit) container ships this year to Onomichi, which would complete production. "We expect the successful cooperation between us and Onomichi will pave the way for further cooperation with other Japanese shipbuilders in the future," Lo said. He said Japanese firms would gain from the lower cost of shipbuilding in Taiwan while CSBC would benefit from Japanese technology and marketing. This would pose a challenge to competitors in Europe and South Korea. Lo said CSBC has made losses of about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs since beginning operations in 1975. Its total debt now stands at about 500 mln dlrs, with annual interest payments of nearly three mln dlrs. But he said the company, which is Taiwan's largest shipbuilder, still has full government support and had begun diversifying into ship repairing and manufacture of pipes and other machinery. "We hope we can survive and prosper through diversification," he said. Lo said income from ship repairing almost doubled to 20 mln U.S. Dlrs in the year ended June 1986 compared with the previous financial year. He estimated income would rise to more than 25 mln dlrs in 1986/87. CSBC has orders to build 10 ships totalling 460,000 dead weight tons (dwt) this financial year, compared with 11 ships of 462,000 dwt in 1985/86, he said. Lo said the prospects for shipbuilding were gloomy at least until 1991 due to overtonnage, but the outlook for ship repairing was bright. REUTER 
CREDITORS SEEK SWIFT RESCUE PACKAGE FOR JAPAN LINE

A group of creditor banks hopes to work out a rescue package for Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, one of the world's largest tanker operators, by the end of Japan's business year on March 31, a spokesman for the Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd <IBJT.T> (IBJ) said. Japan Line's cumulative debt was 68.98 billion yen at the end of September, which exceeded shareholders' equities and reserves totalling 63.40 billion. In December, Japan Line asked banks to shelve repayment of about 124 billion yen in outstanding loans and about 153 billion in loans to its subsidiaries. Japan Line said then that the yen's steep rise and the world shipping recession had hit the company hard. The Japanese daily Asahi Shimbun said today that IBJ and three other banks plan to abandon a total of 16 billion yen in loans to Japan Line and a group of creditor banks plans to buy seven billion yen of new Japan Line shares. The spokesman for IBJ, Japan Line's largest creditor, said the package may write off part of the outstanding loans and will be worked out before long. Commenting on the article, he said the details of the package have not yet been settled. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT EXPORTS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Australian wheat shipments rose to 1.33 mln tonnes in February from 1.01 mln in January, an Australian Wheat Board official said. February's shipments were down on the 1.54 mln tonnes shipped in February 1986. Cumulative shipments for the first five months of the October/September wheat year were 6.12 mln tonnes, as against 6.54 mln a year earlier, the official said. The major destinations in February were: China (419,196 tonnes), Egypt (301,909), Iraq (142,055), Japan (110,261), South Korea (100,847) and the Soviet Union (100,056 tonnes). REUTER 
OPEC STICKING FIRM ON OFFICIAL PRICES - SUBROTO

OPEC countries are all sticking firmly to official crude oil prices but the volatility of spot prices is likely to continue into the third quarter, Indonesian Minister of Mines and Energy Subroto told Reuters. Subroto, attending a Pacific Energy Cooperation conference, blamed recent rapid spot price changes on unbalanced supply and demand. "If we stick to the production limitation, the third quarter will be in better balance." He said the market is in a period of transition while the impact of OPEC's December agreement to cut output and fix prices at an average 18 dlrs a barrel is worked through. Asked whether OPEC members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) had any concrete proposals to help Qatar sell its crude oil in the face of strong resistance to its official prices, Subroto said: "Apparently they have taken care of that." "They (the GCC) meet very often among themselves. I think they'll help each other," he said. Subroto said that as he was not a member of OPEC's Price Differentials Committee he did not know why the meeting had been postponed from its scheduled April 2 date. "Maybe they find it is better not to have the meeting because ... Everyone is sticking to official prices," he said. REUTER 
AUSTRIA DECIDES EARLY REDEMPTION OF SAMURAI BOND

Austria has decided to redeem six years early a 20 billion yen, 12-year, 8.5 pct samurai bond due on August 18, 1993, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd said as lead manager. It will redeem 18.4 billion yen at 103.00 and the rest at par this August 18 under an annual redemption obligation, probably because of declining yen interest rates, Daiwa said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 500 BILLION IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow 500 billion yen of financing bills it holds to help absorb a projected money market surplus, money market traders said. Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.9989 pct on the sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in 27-day repurchase agreement, due April 2. The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.9994 pct in a 39-day repurchase pact maturing on April 14, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 4.0625 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.50/43 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit. Tomorrow's surplus in the money market is estimated at 420 billion yen, mainly due to payment of national annuities, money traders said. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 1,300 yen. REUTER 
INDIA AND JAPAN TO DISCUSS IRON ORE PRICES

The state-owned Minerals and Metals Trading Corp will send a team to Japan next week to negotiate an iron ore export contract for 1987/88 beginning April 1, trade sources said. Japan, the biggest buyer of Indian iron ore with imports of around 23 mln tonnes a year, has asked India to reduce prices from the current average of 18 dlrs a tonne, the sources said. "Japan has said it may be forced to reduce ore imports from India next year if New Delhi fails to reduce the price," one source said, but declined to give further details. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS SEEN AGREEING DEBT RISK SCHEME

Japanese creditor banks are close to a decision to jointly establish an offshore firm to which they will transfer part of their title to possibly unrecoverable debts owed by developing nations, international financial sources told Reuters. Details of the deal are likely be decided next week and the firm set up before the end of the month, they said. The scheme is intended to improve financial management at the banks and reduce the risk of problems in the event of debts turning bad, the sources said. Last week's announcement by Brazil that it would indefinitely suspend interest payments on an estimated 68 billion dlrs owed to commercial banks prompted Japanese creditors to finalise the project, the sources said. Major Japanese banks have been considering a plan to avoid a debt crisis since the start of the year, they said. There are likely to be at least 10 participating banks, and perhaps as many as 28, they said. About 30 Japanese commercial banks have outstanding loans totalling over 10 billion dlrs to Brazil, accounting for about 15 pct of all commercial loans to that country. The most likely venue for the envisaged firm is the Caribbean tax haven of the Cayman Islands, the sources said. The idea is to create a pool of funds in the firm with participating creditor banks holding the firm's stock. The firm will then use the funds to buy from its stock-holding banks title to repayments of specified foreign loans which are potentially bad, the sources said. The stock-holding banks will draw up a list of such loans. Subject to the scheme would be loans extended to debt-ridden countries such as Mexico and Argentina, they said. The financial sources said interest payments to the firm would not be taxed because of its location. Japanese banks have asked the finance ministry to increase tax breaks on loan loss reserves, but the ministry has not yet complied. A senior ministry official welcomed the scheme and said it may encourage new lending to developing countries. The ministry instructs banks to establish reserves for up to five pct of their loans to 35 financially troubled countries, but it only grants tax breaks on reserves accounting for one pct of the loans. REUTER 
MITSUI AND CO TO ISSUE EURODOLLAR WARRANT BONDS

Mitsui and Co Ltd said it plans to issue 300 mln Eurodollar warrant bonds in two tranches with payment on March 30 through a syndicate led by Nomura International Ltd. One tranche is of five-year, 150 mln dlr bonds while the rest is of seven-year, 150 mln dlr bonds, but other issue terms have not yet been decided. REUTER 
JAPAN'S CHAMBER OF COMMERCE URGES FISCAL SPENDING

President of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) Noboru Gotoh called on the Government to issue additional construction bonds as an emergency measure to stimulate domestic demand. Gotoh told a press conference that increased fiscal spending is the only alternative to prop up the economy as credit conditions are easy enough, a JCCI spokesman said. Japan faces serious unemployment unless more construction bonds, to raise cash for public works, are issued but Japan should continue to carry out fiscal reform programmes, Gotoh said. REUTER 
JAPANESE CAPITAL INVESTMENT SEEN SLUGGISH IN 1987

Japanese private plant and equipment investment will grow 0.1 pct in fiscal 1987, starting April 1, from 1986 due mainly to a continued slump in manufacturing sector spending, the Japan Development Bank said. Capital spending by manufacturing industries, hit hard by the rise of the yen, will fall 5.6 pct, a survey said. Planned investment by non-manufacturing firms will grow four pct as industries like leasing and transport that have benefitted from the yen's rise will remain robust, it said. The 0.1 pct overall increase compares to the 3.1 pct rise the bank projected for the current fiscal year. In the manufacturing sector, iron and steel companies are the most pessimistic, with an estimated 18.0 pct spending cut. Investment by precision machinery and textile firms will decline by 18 pct and 11.2 pct respectively, the survey said. In the non-manufacturing sector, transport and leasing service industries are expected to increase their spending by 15.7 pct and 10.6 pct, respectively. The bank's survey, conducted in early February, was based on questionnaires from 1,738 corporations in all sectors having a business relationship with the bank. REUTER 
JAPAN RULING PARTY FIXES DATE OF BUDGET HEARING

Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party started moves to push through the delayed draft budget for 1987/88 through Parliament, deepening a clash with the opposition which called the move rash and unforgivable. In the absence of the opposition, LDP members of parliament decided at a meeting of the Lower House Steering Committee to hold a public hearing on the draft budget on March 13 and 14, parliamentary officials said. The step came after Parliament resumed deliberations last Tuesday following a month-long opposition boycott over a controversial government-proposed sales tax plan. Four opposition parties led by the Socialists have been delaying budget deliberations in a bid to shelve the sales tax on which the budget plan is based. A Socialist spokesman said the opposition would again boycott parliament unless the LDP changed its mind. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, who has vowed to push through the tax reforms, told reporters: "Watching closely negotiations between the ruling and opposition parties, I would like to avoid ... Passing (the budget) singlehandedly." The five pct tax, part of Nakasone's tax reform plan, is planned to start next January to help offset cuts in individual income and corporate tax. The opposition objected to fixing a date for the hearing because the LDP could technically stop deliberations on the budget and ram it through the budget committee and then a Lower House plenary session, political analysts said. The four opposition parties called the LDP move "an unforgivable, rash act" and said they would fight to scrap the sales tax. REUTER 
MITSUI AND CO TO ISSUE EURODOLLAR WARRANT BONDS

Mitsui and Co Ltd said it plans to issue 300 mln Eurodollar warrant bonds in two tranches with payment on March 30 through a syndicate led by Nomura International Ltd. One tranche is of five-year, 150 mln dlr bonds while the rest is of seven-year, 150 mln dlr bonds, but other issue terms have not yet been decided. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 500 BILLION IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow 500 billion yen of financing bills it holds to help absorb a projected money market surplus, money market traders said. Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.9989 pct on the sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in 27-day repurchase agreement, due April 2. The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.9994 pct in a 39-day repurchase pact maturing on April 14, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 4.0625 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.50/43 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit. Tomorrow's surplus in the money market is estimated at 420 billion yen, mainly due to payment of national annuities, money traders said. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 1,300 yen. REUTER 
SAPPORO BREWERIES ISSUES FIVE YEAR SFR NOTES

Sapporo Breweries Ltd of Japan is issuing 100 mln Swiss francs of five year notes with a 4-5/8 pct coupon and 100-1/4 issue price, lead manager Swiss Bank Corp said. The issue is guaranteed by Fuji Bank. Payment is due March 17. Reuter 
BRAZILIAN FINANCE MINISTER EXTENDS TRIP TO JAPAN

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro will extend his international tour, flying to Japan for talks with government officials and representatives of banks to explain Brazil's decision to halt payment of part of its 109-billion dlrs foreign debt, Finance Ministry sources said. Funaro, who is in Rome today, will fly to Tokyo on Sunday, after having completed a week-long trip to the United States, France, England, Italy, West Germany and Switzerland. Brazil halted payment of interest rates on 68 billion dlrs owed to 700 private commercial foreign banks as part of an strategy to alleviate the burden of its commitments. Funaro, who is accompanied by Central Bank governor Francisco Gros, met only with government officials of the countries visited over the week. In Tokyo, however, he is due to meet private bankers, to whom Brazil owes some 6.8 billion dlrs, the sources said. He is due back in Brasilia next Wednesday, March 11, the sources added. Reuter 
PEMEX LOWERS FEBRUARY FAR EAST CRUDE OIL PRICES

The Mexican state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) said its Far East customers would be charged 17.25 dlrs per barrel for Isthmus crude in February and 14.45 dlrs for the heavier Maya. Pemex said this was 32 cts less than January Isthmus and 15 cts less than January Maya. Far East customers, primarily Japan which buys an average 180,000 barrels per day of which 150,000 is Isthmus, pay retroactively while European and U.S. clients are charged per delivery. Reuter 
CANADA'S MOVE TO SHORTEN DEBT TERMS AIDS MARKET

The government's move to pare its huge financing costs by shortening debt maturities has left more room for other borrowers and sparked a lively market for treasury bills, senior market analysts said. The Bank of Canada, Ottawa's fiscal agent in the marketplace, revealed this week that sharply reduced borrowing needs has allowed the shift toward shorter bond terms and heavier emphasis on the weekly treasury bill auction, issued in terms of up to one year. "The aggressive use of the treasury bill program has meant that the government is now able to maintain lower cash balances and lower financing costs," the Bank of Canada said in its 1986 annual report released this week. The government has said its budget deficit financing requirements will fall to 24 billion dlrs in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1987, from 30 billion dlrs the prior year. Projected fiscal 1988 requirements are 21.3 billion dlrs. The bank said that of last year's 19 new government bond issues, nearly two-thirds were for maturities of less than 10 years. Greater use was also made of bond auctions to market new issues with terms in the two- to five-year range. Meanwhile, treasury bills outstanding at year end totalled nearly 70 billion dlrs, an increase of 10.3 billion dlrs over the year and 20 billion dlrs since 1984. Although the amount of money saved from moving away from the long bonds was not disclosed, bond experts believe it was considerable because of the much lower interest premiums paid on short term debt. But market watchers were unsure what affect the move will have on Japanese investors--who have been snapping up Canadian bonds at a record clip--because of their traditional preference for long term financings. Bond traders said the Japanese, who purchased a record 9.5 billion dlrs of Canadian bonds last year, have adapted to the changes by buying longer term provincial issues and shifting to the medium term issues offered by Ottawa. "Their (Japanese) buying over the course of the last six months has been very much concentrated in the medium term maturities," noted one Canadian bond trader who asked not to be identified. Yet there was some concern a shortage could eventually develop for bonds that mature in 10 or more years. Said David Gluskin, vice-president of Nesbitt Thomson Bongard Inc, "When interest rates finally seem to have stopped going down, there is going to be a flood of people trying to lock in the long end and not everyone will be able to get in the door." But bonds analysts said at the moment with interest rates trending down, investors appear to welcome the change, especially the greater treasury bill financing. "The wholesale market in treasury bills is very active," said Michael Berry, vice-president of the securities firm, Walwyn Stodgell Cohran Murray Ltd. The change also improves receptivity in the market for other borrowers, including provincial governments, the big utilities and corporations. "There doesn't seem to any lack of bonds in the longer end now, that also may be the result that any percieved shortage has probably been taken up by provincial funding activities," commented Berry. Reuter 
USSR TO CUT COAL PRICE FOR JAPANESE STEELMILLS

The Soviet Union has agreed to cut its coking coal export prices to Japanese steel mills by about five dlrs a tonne in 1987/88 starting April 1 in exchange for an increase in export volume, industry sources said. The prices were set at 44 dlrs a tonne for Neryungrinsky coal and at 43.80 dlrs for Kuznetsky coal, fob. Japan will import a total of 4.9 mln tonnes from both areas, up from 4.2 mln a year earlier, they said. The steelmakers had asked Moscow to agree to a cutback to 3.7 mln tonnes in 1987/88, but the Soviet Union urged Japan to increase the amount to 6.5 mln, they said. REUTER 
IRAN SELLING DISCOUNTED CRUDE, JAPAN TRADERS SAY

Japanese customers have bought nearly six mln barrels of crude oil from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) at a substantial discount to the official price, and Western traders have received even larger discounts, Japanese traders involved in the transactions told Reuters. NIOC has sold its crude for March shipment to Japanese customers with different formulas. One company has bought 800,000 barrels of Iranian Heavy at a straight discount of 30-35 cents below the official price, the sources said. Other deals have been fixed with prices linked to Oman and Dubai spot prices less a discount, they said. Iran's discounted sales have not, however, managed to reverse the bullish tone in the crude oil and products spot markets, oil traders said. Market sentiment is being influenced more by the colder weather in Europe, and reports that OPEC's February output was below its self-imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day. Firmer gas oil on the London futures, and more bullish sentiment on the New York Mercantile Exchange futures market are supporting spot price levels, they said. Another Japanese trading house has paid the official price but through a processing arrangement will effectively receive a discount, the sources said. "It's just disguised cheating," one Japanese trader said. The sources said only one Japanese company had paid the official price for Iranian oil. It has purchased 1.5 mln barrels of Iranian Heavy for April shipment for refining in Singapore. They said about nine VLCCs of Iranian crude have been sold to Western traders with pricing based 60 pct on the official price and 40 pct on spot prices, or with part of the price related to processing arrangements. 
HUTCHISON UNIT BUYS CONTAINER CRANES FROM JAPAN

Container port operator, <Hong Kong International Terminals Ltd>, a 89 pct held unit of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd <HWHH.HK>, said it has placed a 164 mln H.K. Dlr order for seven quayside container cranes of 800 tons each with Japan's Mitsui Engineering and Shipbuilding Co Ltd <MSET.T> for May 1988 to August 1989 delivery. Hong Kong International Terminals operates 32 cranes. REUTER 
JAPAN EX-IM BANK SAYS NO NEW COMMITMENTS TO BRAZIL

Export-Import Bank of Japan president Takashi Tanaka told Brazil the bank will continue to cooperate with it, but he refrained from making any commitment to a new credit, Ex-Im officials said. In a 30-minute meeting, Tanaka told Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro the bank would consider his country's request for a 300 mln dlr credit in the context of international cooperation, the officials said. They said this meant the Ex-Im Bank would grant the credit as part of a package with money from the International Monetary Fund and private banks. Brazil has resisted going to the IMF for help because it fears that the Fund will ask for changes in its economic policies that will throw it into recession. Brazil first requested the 300 mln dlr credit last November, to help it develop the sale and generation of electric power. Funaro renewed the request today. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS PARIS ACCORD HELPING STABILISE RATES

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord has contributed to the stability of exchange rates. Miyazawa told a press conference the agreement reached last month in Paris by six major industrial nations to cooperate in bringing about currency stability has prevented speculative concerns from being active in money centres. The decision in Paris is being understood by the market, he said. The yen-dollar exchange rate has been moving in a narrow range since finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany reached the accord. REUTER 
POLES SAID HELD IN JAPAN ON COMPUTER THEFT CHARGES

Police arrested two Polish citizens for trying to steal Japanese computer technology, local media reports said today. The reports said the two had worked at a computer-related company in Tokyo and visited Japanese computer makers several times after coming to Japan on tourist visas last October. One report said they were computer specialists at a Polish technology institute, and that the company they worked for was managed by a naturalised Japanese from Poland who was a graduate of the institute. Police officials declined to comment on the reports. REUTER 
JAPAN AUCTIONS 1,000 BILLION YEN SHORT-TERM PAPER

Japan's Finance Ministry auctioned 1,000 billion yen worth of tankoku, six month debt-financing paper, to roll over previously issued tankoku maturing on March 19, a spokesman said. The last tankoku auction, on February 12, produced a record low yield of 3.383 pct, reflecting expectation of a half point cut in Japan's discount rate, he said. In the previous auction for 1,000 billion yen, four major Japanese securities houses took 92 pct of the issue amount in an attempt to meet strong demand from large institutional investors, securities managers said. Securities managers said they expect the auction to go well again this time as securities houses will try to expand their inventories of tankoku on continuing good response from institutional investors. Contrary to a projected low yield on tankoku, short-term interest rates have been resisting a fall on growing demand for funds ahead of the March 31 financial year-end, they said. The Bank of Japan has been trying to dampen money market rates to make the latest discount rate cut effective, but so far in vain, dealers said. The auction results will be announced tomorrow. REUTER 
JAPAN TANKOKU YIELDS HIT RECORD LOW AT AUCTION

The Finance Ministry said its auction yesterday of 1,000 billion yen of tankoku, six-month debt financing paper, produced a record low average yield of 3.246 pct on aggressive bidding from securities houses. The tankoku mature on September 21, 1987. The previous record low was 3.383 pct at the last auction, on February 12. One of four major Japanese securities house bought 39.5 pct of the total 1,021.1 billion yen in bids accepted, ministry sources said. Securities houses bid aggressively as big retail accounts, such as tokkin, special money trust and trust funds have been showing strong interest in tankoku on increasing demand for short-term fund management, securities house managers said. The yield for tankoku, issued on a discount basis, is one point below the 4.26/12 pct interest rates for six-month certificates of deposit today. In the previous auction for 1,000 billion yen, the four majors took 92 pct of the issue to increase their tankoku inventory, the managers said. Bids totalled 1,975.8 billion yen. The average price was 98.36 to give a yield of 3.246 pct and lowest was 98.33, giving 3.314 pct, the Ministry said. REUTER 
Sumita says little room for Bank of Japan to further ease credit policy



SUMITA SAYS LITTLE ROOM FOR BANK TO EASE POLICY

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said there is little room left for the central bank to further ease its credit policy as interest rates levels are now approaching their lower limit. "The government should instead seek ways of making the best use of its fiscal policy," he told a press conference. His remarks were concerned with a comprehensive economic stimulative package the government plans to adopt in the coming days. At the recent talks among the six major industrialised nations in Paris, Japan promised to work out a comprehensive economic package to boost domestic demand, which in turn would help increase its imports and reduce its trade surplus. Sumita also said the economy will show a gradual upturn in the second half of the year if the yen remains stable. He said there is caution in the foreign exchange market against a further rise of the yen and mark and this explains the recent stability in the currency markets. Conflicting economic indicators from the U.S. Have also been dampening market activity, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN MAY INCREASE ITS BRAZILIAN SOYBEAN PURCHASES

Japanese crushers are likely to buy at least 200,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans this year and another 100,000 to 200,000 if quality and shipping conditions are good against 128,089 tonnes in 1986, trade sources said. A Japanese trading house recently bought about 31,000 tonnes of soybeans for April 10/May 10 shipment, they said. "Because Brazilian soybean prices are now some 10 cents a bushel cheaper than U.S. Origin due to the bumper harvest, it is highly likely that Japanese crushers will increase their buying volume," one source said. Brazilian beans are available to Japan for shipment from May to July. REUTER 
JAPAN AND THAILAND TO JOINTLY EXTRACT RARE METALS

Japan's Agency of Natural Resources and Energy said it will begin experiments with Thailand at the end of March to start commercial production of rare metals in 1989 under a joint project. An agency official said it will set up a 500 mln yen pilot plant in Bangkok which will extract high quality rare metals such as titanium and niobium from sand left over from tin production processes in Thailand. The plant wilq use about a tonne of sand per day, although it is unclear how much rare metal will be extracted, the official said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S JOBLESS SEEN RISING TO 3.3 PCT IN 1987/88

The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures. REUTER 
TOKYO TO ISSUE 100 MLN DLR BOND IN NEW YORK

The Tokyo Metropolitan Government said it would float a 100 mln dlr 10-year bond with a 7.5 pct coupon in New York, its first Yankee bond issue in 21 years. The bond will be priced at 99.515 to yield 7.585 pct. The issue will be immediately swapped into Swiss francs, putting actual interest rates at around four pct, a Tokyo government spokeswoman said. The lead manager is First Boston Corp and the co-leaders are Goldman Sachs and Co and Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, she said. The funds will be used for sewerage and reclamation work. REUTER 
JAPAN }O CURB VEHICLE EXPORTS TO EC

Japanese car makers will curb their exports to the European Community (EC) following an unofficial directive from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), automobile industry sources said. Some sources said exports to the EC this year are likely to be at most unchanged from last year's 1.10 mln units and may even fall due to an anticipated slackening of EC economic growth and increasing trade friction. Last week, MITI vice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda said the ministry had asked car makers to exercise prudence in exporting to Europe. Japanese car makers boosted exports to the EC in January to build up depleted vehicle inventories, industry sources said. Japan's vehicle exports to Europe in January rose 38 pct from a year earlier to 174,133 units. In December, exports fell 70.4 pct year-on-year as makers curbed shipments to meet an earlier directive from MITI to limit 1986 exports, they said. REUTER 
NAKASONE SET TO STAY UNTIL TAX REFORM APPROVED

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will step down only after his plan to overhaul Japan's tax system gets parliamentary approval, one of his closest aides said today. The aide, who declined to be identified, said at a private meeting, "Nakasone's power in office does not necessarily terminate at the end of his term in October. It depends on when (the) seven tax reform bills get parliamentary approval." Nakasone vowed yesterday to press on with his plan despite Sunday's unexpected Upper House by-election defeat of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in a conservative stronghold. The socialist winner, backed by other opposition parties, had campaigned against a controversial five pct value added sales tax, the main plank of the reform plans. The aide dismissed the possibility of any amendment of the sales tax on the grounds the opposition parties were demanding nothing but retraction of the tax. They have been refusing to discuss a draft budget for the 1987 fiscal year starting on April 1, which includes the tax plans. They have been resorting to an on-off boycott of parliament since February 4. "If I were Nakasone, I would close the current regular parliamentary session on May 27 as scheduled, attend the Venice summit of industrial democracies in June and open an extraordinary session to discuss the tax plans," the aide said. Under law, a regular session can be extended only once while an extraordinary session can be extended twice.The other option would be to extend the current session, he said. "The opposition parties will surely present a no-confidence motion against the Nakasone Cabinet at one stage or another." One scenario then will be to reject the motion opening up the way for tax reform. "Another scenario is the resignation of the Nakasone Cabinet en masse. A third scenario is a dissolution of the Lower House for a snap general election," the aide said. That is only possible if the 200 opposition members resign from the 512-seat Lower House, necessitating by-elections. The LDP now has 304 seats in the Lower House after its landslide victory in general elections last July. There are five independents and three vacancies. "The LDP which will put up candidates will certainly inflate their seats, but at the expense of fierce media criticism," the aide said. He said he expected the proposed sales tax to have little effect on local elections to be held on April 12 and 26. About 2,600 elections will be held in all but three of the nation's 47 prefectures including 13 gubernatorial elections. "Candidates running in prefectural assemblies will all oppose the sales tax irrespective of their party tickets. "Possible effects, if any, will be on gubernatorial elections in Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido and Fukuoka in southern Japan," he said. The two posts are now held by opposition socialists. REUTER 
JAPAN'S JOBLESS SEEN RISING TO 3.3 PCT IN 1987/88

The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures. REUTER 
JAPANESE 150 BILLION YEN LOAN FOR INDONESIA

Indonesia signed an agreement to borrow up to 150 billion yen in an untied yen loan from Japan's governmental Export-Import Bank, a bank spokesman said. The accord on the loan for Indonesia's 21 development projects was signed by the visiting Indonesian Finance Minister Radius Prawiro and Ex-Im President Takashi Tanaka, the spokesman said. The loan will be the bank's first untied loan to an Asian country in co-financing with the World Bank, but it will not be tied to purchase of Japanese goods or services, he said. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS LITTLE ROOM FOR BANK TO EASE POLICY

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said there is little room left for the central bank to further ease its credit policy as interest rates levels are now approaching their lower limit. "The government should instead seek ways of making the best use of its fiscal policy," he told a press conference. His remarks were concerned with a comprehensive economic stimulative package the government plans to adopt in the coming days. At the recent talks among the six major industrialised nations in Paris, Japan promised to work out a comprehensive economic package to boost domestic demand, which in turn would help increase its imports and reduce its trade surplus. Sumita also said the economy will show a gradual upturn in the second half of the year if the yen remains stable. He said there is caution in the foreign exchange market against a further rise of the yen and mark and this explains the recent stability in the currency markets. Conflicting economic indicators from the U.S. Have also been dampening market activity, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN TANKOKU YIELDS HIT RECORD LOW AT AUCTION

The Finance Ministry said its auction yesterday of 1,000 billion yen of tankoku, six-month debt financing paper, produced a record low average yield of 3.246 pct on aggressive bidding from securities houses. The tankoku mature on September 21, 1987. The previous record low was 3.383 pct at the last auction, on February 12. One of four major Japanese securities house bought 39.5 pct of the total 1,021.1 billion yen in bids accepted, ministry sources said. Securities houses bid aggressively as big retail accounts, such as tokkin, special money trust and trust funds have been showing strong interest in tankoku on increasing demand for short-term fund management, securities house managers said. The yield for tankoku, issued on a discount basis, is one point below the 4.26/12 pct interest rates for six-month certificates of deposit today. In the previous auction for 1,000 billion yen, the four majors took 92 pct of the issue to increase their tankoku inventory, the managers said. Bids totalled 1,975.8 billion yen. The average price was 98.36 to give a yield of 3.246 pct and lowest was 98.33, giving 3.314 pct, the Ministry said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO CURB VEHICLE EXPORTS TO EC

Japanese car makers will curb their exports to the European Community (EC) following an unofficial directive from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), automobile industry sources said. Some sources said exports to the EC this year are likely to be at most unchanged from last year's 1.10 mln units and may even fall due to an anticipated slackening of EC economic growth and increasing trade friction. Last week, MITI vice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda said the ministry had asked car makers to exercise prudence in exporting to Europe. Reuter 
NAKASONE SET TO STAY UNTIL TAX REFORM APPROVED

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will step down only after his plan to overhaul Japan's tax system gets parliamentary approval, one of his closest aides said today. The aide, who declined to be identified, said at a private meeting, "Nakasone's power in office does not necessarily terminate at the end of his term in October. It depends on when (the) seven tax reform bills get parliamentary approval." Nakasone vowed yesterday to press on with his plan despite Sunday's unexpected Upper House by-election defeat of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in a conservative stronghold. The socialist winner, backed by other opposition parties, had campaigned against a controversial five pct value added sales tax, the main plank of the reform plans. The aide dismissed the possibility of any amendment of the sales tax on the grounds the opposition parties were demanding nothing but retraction of the tax. They have been refusing to discuss a draft budget for the 1987 fiscal year starting on April 1, which includes the tax plans. They have been resorting to an on-off boycott of parliament since February 4. "If I were Nakasone, I would close the current regular parliamentary session on May 27 as scheduled, attend the Venice summit of industrial democracies in June and open an extraordinary session to discuss the tax plans," the aide said. Under law, a regular session can be extended only once while an extraordinary session can be extended twice.The other option would be to extend the current session, he said. "The opposition parties will surely present a no-confidence motion against the Nakasone Cabinet at one stage or another." One scenario then will be to reject the motion opening up the way for tax reform. "Another scenario is the resignation of the Nakasone Cabinet en masse. A third scenario is a dissolution of the Lower House for a snap general election," the aide said. That is only possible if the 200 opposition members resign from the 512-seat Lower House, necessitating by-elections. The LDP now has 304 seats in the Lower House after its landslide victory in general elections last July. There are five independents and three vacancies. "The LDP which will put up candidates will certainly inflate their seats, but at the expense of fierce media criticism," the aide said. He said he expected the proposed sales tax to have little effect on local elections to be held on April 12 and 26. About 2,600 elections will be held in all but three of the nation's 47 prefectures including 13 gubernatorial elections. "Candidates running in prefectural assemblies will all oppose the sales tax irrespective of their party tickets. "Possible effects, if any, will be on gubernatorial elections in Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido and Fukuoka in southern Japan," he said. The two posts are now held by opposition socialists. REUTER 
JAPAN RELAXES RULES ON SECURITIES COMPANY OUTLETS

Japan has relaxed its limit on the establishment of securities company outlets in order to service a growing number of individual investors, the Finance Ministry said. Japanese securities companies can now set up as many as 21 new outlets in the two years before March 31, 1989, against the previous maximum of 13. The rules apply to outlets in department stores, supermarkets and other locations convenient for individuals. Foreign securities firms are not affected by the ruling, it said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKRUPTCIES DECLINE IN FEBRUARY

Japan's corporate bankruptcies in February fell 10.8 pct from January to 1,071 cases and total debts dropped 49.4 pct to 149.40 billion yen, the Tokyo Commerce and Industry Research Co said. February bankruptcies fell 14.9 pct from a year earlier, the 26th straight monthly decline, and debts fell 54.3 pct. The lower number of bankruptcies in February reflected a relaxation of money market conditions and reduced bill settlements due to fewer operating days, it said. Bankruptcies caused by the strength of the yen against the dollar totalled 69, or 6.4 pct of those in February, with debts of 25.52 billion yen, the research firm said. This compared with 64 with debts of 125.59 billion yen in January, it said. Currency-linked bankruptcies since November 1985, when the dollar's depreciation against the yen began to affect Japanese export-linked firms, totalled 772, with cumulative debts of 660.53 billion yen, it said. The value of the yen against the dollar rose to an average 153.49 yen per dollar in February from 184.62 a year earlier. Bankruptcies usually decline in the first quarter of the year due to fewer operating days and for seasonal reasons. Bankruptcies are expected to increase in the quarter starting April 1 due to expectations of slow consumer spending, low wage increases for the 1987/88 fiscal year which starts in April, and slow capital spending by manufacturers, the company said. Bankrupcties among export-linked subcontractors will rise due to a recent shift by major manufacturers to overseas production, it added. REUTER 
TONEN SEKIYU AND EXXON UNIT STUDYING RESIN PROJECT

<Tonen Sekiyukagaku KK> and <Exxon Chemical Co>, a petrochemical division of Exxon Corp <XON>, said they agreed to accelerate a study to set up an equally-owned joint venture to make waterwhite resin in Japan. Details of the venture, to be based on Exxon Chemical technology, will be set later, the companies said. Waterwhite resins are widely used in adhesive applications for baby nappies, medical tapes, and other bonding agents. Tonen is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Toa Nenryo Kogyo KK <TNEN.T> which is owned 25 pct by Exxon Corp. REUTER 
CONVERTIBLE YEN BOND BROKERAGE FEE MAY BE CUT

The Tokyo Stock Exchange said in a statement it is considering reducing brokerage fees on yen convertible bonds. The cut would be in response to a planned increase in securities transaction tax to 26 yen per 10,000 yen from 4.5 as part of the government's proposed tax reform bills, securities house managers said. Under the current system, investors must also pay 0.6 pct of face value as brokerage fee to securities houses for transactions involving principal over 30 mln yen. The exchange's draft revision sets brokerage fee percentage rates in inverse proportion to the size of amounts transacted, market sources said. Details of rates on transactions under 30 mln yen have yet to be worked out, an exchange spokesman said. The news had little immediate impact on the convertible bond market because participants are unsure when the new rates will be introduced and because the timing of parliamentary approval of the tax reform bills is uncertain due to opposition to them, securities dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S OVERSEAS OUTPUT FORECAST TO RISE 26 PCT

The overseas production in yen terms of Japanese firms should rise 26 pct in 1987/88 ending March after a four pct fall in 1986/87, a Ministry of International Trade and Industry survey said. It attributed the rise to companies moving production overseas to avoid losses due to the strong yen. The survey covered 122 major firms in 17 sectors. The survey called for bold moves to stimulate domestic demand to achieve the government's goal of 3.5 pct gross national product growth in 1987/88. A package of economic measures to boost the economy is expected next month. The survey said Japanese car output in the United States and Canada would jump to two mln vehicles in fiscal 1990 from 617,000 in 1986 and worldwide electronic appliance output would rise 31.7 pct. Domestic unemployment is likely to reach four pct, or about 2.5 mln jobless, in fiscal 1990 from three pct now if current trends continue. Recruitment in the car industry is expected to fall by 35 pct in 1987/88 and by 40 pct in the electronics sector. The steel industry plans to cut its 150,000 workforce by 27 pct by the end of 1990/91 and the shipbuilding, coal and non-ferrous metal industries all plan big cuts in 1987/88. REUTER 
JAPAN TO SELL 200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS, TRADERS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow 200 billion yen of financing bills under a 50-day repurchase agreement maturing on May 2, to help absorb a projected money market surplus due largely to distribution of local allocation tax ahead of the March 31 fiscal year-end, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sales to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9496 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate for two-month commercial bills and the 4.46/37 pct yield today on two-month certificates of deposit. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at about 1,500 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN READY TO DISCUSS BANK REGULATION

Japan is ready to discuss bank regulation and capital adequacy with western monetary authorities but cannot say when or how joint rules can be agreed, Japanese vice-minister of finance for international affairs Toyoo Gyohten said. He told a Nikkei conference on Tokyo financial markets that Japan viewed a January outline agreement between the Bank of England and U.S. Regulatory authorities as "significant." The accord, setting joint rules on capital adequacy, was criticised in financial markets for excluding Japan, thus putting U.S. And U.K. Banks at a disadvantage to Japanese banks "I am pleased to say that we are prepared to work with British and American regulators," Gyohten said. He added that preliminary contacts had already been made in the margin of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) in Basle where central bank governors of western nations meet every month. But proper negotiations were still some way off. "We have to start learning about the different situations in each country before we can start working towards joint rules," he said. "I can't predict when or how we will reach conclusions," he added. REUTER 
JAPAN TO SELL 200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS, TRADERS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow 200 billion yen of financing bills under a 50-day repurchase agreement maturing on May 2, to help absorb a projected money market surplus due largely to distribution of local allocation tax ahead of the March 31 fiscal year-end, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sales to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9496 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate for two-month commercial bills and the 4.46/37 pct yield today on two-month certificates of deposit. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at about 1,500 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN RELAXES RULES ON SECURITIES COMPANY OUTLETS

Japan has relaxed its limit on the establishment of securities company outlets in order to service a growing number of individual investors, the Finance Ministry said. Japanese securities companies can now set up as many as 21 new outlets in the two years before March 31, 1989, against the previous maximum of 13. The rules apply to outlets in department stores, supermarkets and other locations convenient for individuals. Foreign securities firms are not affected by the ruling, it said. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMY MAY BE NEAR BOTTOM, ECONOMISTS SAY

The worst may be just about over for Japan's battered economy but economists said they do not expect a vigorous recovery anytime soon. Japanese bank economists polled by Reuters said the economy's 18 month-old slowdown is likely to end in the first half of this year, helped by rising exports, stepped-up government spending and falling prices. "The economy will bottom out in the middle of the year," said Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist, Masahiko Koido. Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd senior economist Susumu Taketomi agreed. "It (the bottom) is in the offing," he said. But he added that the recovery will be slow. Growth in the fiscal year beginning next month will only pick-up 2.2 pct, from two pct in the current year, he said. Signs that the economy has just about weathered the worst are increasing. The volume of exports in the first two months of the year rose slightly on a year-on-year basis, after declining toward the end of last year. Although this may be due to extraordinary factors such as a sharp rise in car exports to rebuild depleted European stocks, several economists said it could mark the beginning of a recovery. Industrial production fell 0.7 pct in January, much smaller than expected, and is forecast by the government to rise 0.3 pct in February and 2.6 pct in March. A Bank of Japan survey released last week showed that the decline in Japanese corporate earnings may be nearing its end. And the Paris currency accord last month has fostered hopes the rapid yen rise has come to the end, they said. Six nations - the U.K., Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - pledged in Paris last month to stabilise currencies around current levels. The yen's 40 pct climb against the dollar over the last two years has hit the export-driven economy hard, by forcing its companies to raise prices and lose sales in the U.S. Market. "The important thing is the exchange rate," Taketomi said. If it stabilises firms will grow more confident and raise investment in plant and equipment, although there are no signs of that yet, economists said. A stable yen would also help exporters regain some of their competitive edge just as the U.S economy may be starting to recover, economists said. Domestically, the economy may get a boost from some loosening of the government's tight fiscal policy said Haruo Muto, manager of national economics at the Bank of Tokyo Ltd. The next reading of the economy's health should come early next week with the release of gnp figures for the last quarter, 1986. Most private economists expect a rise of about 0.5 pct from the previous quarter. In the third quarter, GNP rose 0.6 pct. But a senior government official said the fourth quarter figures could surprise by showing a rise of more than one point quarter-on-quarter. But he added that would be a statistical aberration and not a significant shift in economic activity. To maintain year-on-year growth of around 2.5 pct, the economy would have had to rise about 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter as the final quarter of 1985 was strong. The rise in the fourth quarter of 1985 was probably a statistical anomaly that was repeated in the final months of 1986, the official said. Economists said the fourth quarter figures were also distorted by the government's sale of gold coins in the second half of 1986. Because the coins were classified as legal tender, their purchase did not show up in the statistics on consumer expenditure. Consumer spending also tailed off in December because of bad weather and smaller-than-normal end-year bonuses, they said. As the government had to buy back some of the coins from retailers because they were unsold, the government's contribution to the economy in the fourth quarter may have been boosted, economists said. Taketomi said it may have received a further boost from government buying of farm products as the domestic crop last year was good. The senior government official said the fourth quarter performance of the domestic sector was probably worse than generally expected, while that of the external sector was better. REUTER 
MOST JAPAN FIRMS NOT RENEWING IRAN TERM CONTRACTS

Most Japanese companies have decided not to renew term contracts to lift Iranian crude oil because spot prices remain considerably lower than OPEC's official levels, industry sources said. They said a cargo of the Mideast benchmark crude Dubai traded yesterday at 16.50 dlrs a barrel, compared to its official price of 17.42 dlrs. Only one Japanese company has renewed its term contract for Iranian crude oil for the second quarter, the sources said. The sources said Japanese companies had been lifting a total of about 185,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Iranian crude under term contracts, but only one firm has agreed to lift in the second quarter. It is lifting just 10,000 to 15,000 bpd. They said this move could inspire Iran to offer discounts on cargoes loading in April, but the likelihood of discounts depended largely on the levels of spot prices. "If the spot price of Dubai goes above 17.30 dlrs we would probably buy Iranian crude at the official price," one Japanese refiner said. "We don't intend to put pressure on them," he added. Buyers have little incentive to renew contracts to lift oil at official OPEC prices while spot prices on all grades are considerably lower, oil traders said. They said if spot prices move higher there will be no problem finding OPEC crude to purchase at the official prices. Qatar has chartered floating storage for its crude oil after finding no buyers at official prices in March. The problem is likely to recur in April, adding to that country's surplus. The traders added that Iraq had dissociated itself from OPEC's December production agreement, while agreeing to the fixed prices. But oil analysts said if OPEC keeps group output close to its first-half 1987 ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd, supply and demand would be balanced by the end of the second quarter. They also said if OPEC holds its official price structure based on a reference price of 18 dlrs, spot price fluctuations should be limited to a 16.50 to 17.20 dlrs range for Dubai and a 17 to 18 dlrs range for the North Sea's Brent blend. One Japanese refiner said, "At the moment there's a lot of pressure on OPEC, particularly on Qatar. But if they hold out there will be no problem, and I'm beginning to trust their ability." Nigerian oil minister and OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman told a news conference in Lagos yesterday, "Nigeria and all member countries of OPEC remain determined to uphold the December agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices." He said OPEC believed consumers had drawn heavily on stocks of both crude oil and refined products, reducing them to levels well below this time last year. He said consumers would soon return to the market in search of crude. A Japanese refiner said, "The European and U.S. Markets are beginning to look better so OPEC might be quite lucky." 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 8,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for April shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not say for how long. The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability. Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange rates. REUTER 
JAPAN MULLING CHANGES TO CORPORATE DISCLOSURE RULES

The Finance Ministry will institute a study to consider changing the corporate disclosure rules to provide more information for investors, a ministry official said. The study will look at whether companies should include data on profits for separate divisions, products and overseas regions in corporate earnings statements the official said. At present, companies give such breakdowns for sales only. He said no time limit has been set for the study. REUTER 
KIDNAPPED JAPANESE BUSINESSMAN ALIVE - CARDINAL

Kidnapped Japanese businessman Noboyuki Wakaoji is alive and well and may soon be released, Cardinal Jaime Sin, the archbishop of Manila, said. Wakaoji, head of the Philippines branch of Mitsui and Co Ltd, is being visited on a daily basis by a senior priest, Sin told reporters at a briefing. He refused to reveal Wakaoji's whereabouts. The businessman was kidnapped last November and his captors have demanded a five mln dlr ransom from Mitsui. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS 1987/88 FIRST HALF BEEF IMPORT QUOTA

The Agriculture Ministry said it set Japan's beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at 93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and 85,000 a year earlier. Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan has been increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31, 1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March 31, 1988. REUTER 
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE

International Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- and medium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen's rise and can only stand levels around 170 yen. He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate level plus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreed upon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations. Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate in stabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. The dollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER 
JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS SEEK CARTEL TO RESTRICT OUTPUT

Japanese shipbuilders have applied to the state's Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to restrict tonnage built to about half of total capacity for the year starting April 1, officials of the Shipbuilders Association of Japan said. Under the plan, 33 yards capable of building ships of more than 10,000 gross tons will curtail operations to three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) a year against capacity of about six mln CGRT. The Transport Ministry estimates new orders at 3.3 mln CGRT in the year to March 1988 and 3.1 mln the following year. The industry has curtailed production due to oversupply nearly every year since 1977/78, under cartel or Transport Ministry guidelines. The latest guidelines call for a ceiling of four mln CGRT in the year to March 31. The cartels, self-imposed and self-regulated, are not legally binding, but industry finds it in its own interest to stick to them. The slowdown in orders has been caused by the strong yen and a protracted worldwide shipbuilding slump. REUTER 
JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES

The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said. The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less. REUTER 
JAPAN CLARIFIES FUND MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS

The Finance Ministry has clarified regulations governing fund management, satisfying overseas critics who charged the rules were too tightly-drawn, ministry officials and Western diplomats said. They said "double licensing" has been dropped so a foreign fund management firm need apply only for a licence for its Japanese subsidiary and not for the parent company as well. A foreign investment management company will be permitted to employ only one fund manager in Japan, with another on standby in the home country. Domestic companies must have two. In deciding whether a Japanese subsidiary of a foreign firm is eligible to manage funds in Japan, the ministry will take account of the amount of funds the parent company has under management, a ministry official said. "This should make it very easy for foreign firms to meet the criteria for a licence," he said without elaborating. He said the ministry expects to grant the first investment management licences by the end of June. Some 135 firms, including some 15 foreign companies, will probably be licensed under the new law passed late last year. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE

The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future, the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER 
NAKASONE REFUSES TO DROP SALES TAX

Japan's Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has refused to drop a proposed sales tax as debate on a draft budget for 1987 resumed after a nine-day opposition boycott. "I have no plan to withdraw the sales tax as I think it is the best policy (for Japan)," Nakasone told the budget committee of the lower house of parliament. Kyodo News Agency said a small group of members of Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party filed a complaint with their local headquarters calling for his expulsion from the party on the grounds he broke a campaign pledge by introducing the sales tax. Nakasone admitted the tax was a major factor in an upper house by-election defeat for his party on Sunday. The election was the first national-level poll since Nakasone presented his plan for overhauling Japan's tax system, which has remained unaltered for the past 36 years. The sales tax and the planned abolition of the tax-free saving system are designed to offset proposed income and corporate tax cuts. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six major industrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yen should stay stable around current levels in the future. The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapid fluctuation of exchange rates, he said. The accord stipulated that current rates reflect fundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER 
JAPAN BROKERS SEEK 10 YEAR GOVERNMENT BOND AUCTION

Japanese securities houses have asked the Finance Ministry again to consider introducing auctions of 10-year government bonds, securities sources said. Finance Ministry officials declined comment but said the Ministry has been aware of growing calls from securities houses for 10-year bond auctions. Japanese securities houses also may allow foreign brokers to underwrite more 10-year bonds from April. Four U.S. Banks are expected to receive Finance Ministry approval in late April to operate securities subsidiaries in Japan as long as they hold no more than 50 pct of the capital, bankers said. These firms are likely to join the syndicate, which will increase the number of participants in the 10-year government bond primary market, securities managers said. Each of the 17 current foreign securities houses in the syndicate underwrites 0.07 pct of each issue, they said. In order to expand participation by foreigners, the syndicate must either expand the securities industry's 26 pct share or introduce auctions to the primary market, they said. Local brokers have requested the head of the syndicate, now Fuji Bank Ltd, to increase their share to 30.7 pct but banks oppose any cut in their 74 pct share, bankers said. REUTER 
JAPAN PERSONAL SAVINGS SOAR IN 1986

Japanese personal savings grew 10.3 pct in 1986 from 1985 helped by a sharp increase in stock investments by individuals, the Bank of Japan said. Outstanding savings on December 31, 1986 totalled 545,303 billion yen. Funds in investment trusts alone totalled 21,918 billion yen, up 37.4 pct from a year earlier. The outstanding balance also included deposits at banks and post offices, up 7.4 pct to 337,867 billion yen, savings in the form of insurance, up 18.6 pct to 111,431 billion, corporate bond investments, up 7.8 pct to 46,867 billion, and investments in trust banks, up 4.1 pct to 27,220 billion. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six major industrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yen should stay stable around current levels in the future. The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapid fluctuation of exchange rates, he said. The accord stipulated that current rates reflect fundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER 
NAKASONE REFUSES TO DROP SALES TAX

Japan's Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has refused to drop a proposed sales tax as debate on a draft budget for 1987 resumed after a nine-day opposition boycott. "I have no plan to withdraw the sales tax as I think it is the best policy (for Japan)," Nakasone told the budget committee of the lower house of parliament. Kyodo News Agency said a small group of members of Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party filed a complaint with their local headquarters calling for his expulsion from the party on the grounds he broke a campaign pledge by introducing the sales tax. Nakasone admitted the tax was a major factor in an upper house by-election defeat for his party on Sunday. The election was the first national-level poll since Nakasone presented his plan for overhauling Japan's tax system, which has remained unaltered for the past 36 years. The sales tax and the planned abolition of the tax-free saving system are designed to offset proposed income and corporate tax cuts. REUTER 
JAPAN TO COORDINATE STUDY OF SUPERCONDUCTORS

Japan will carry out a government-coordinated study of uses for superconducting materials, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) said. University and industry representatives will start discussions in April on basic research and possible applications, Masatoshi Urashima, MITI's director for development of future basic technology, said. Superconductors, which conduct electricity with very low resistance, could be used in computers, semiconductors and high speed trains, he said. Urashima said recent discoveries of superconductive materials which do not need extremely low temperatures led to MITI's decision to coordinate research. MITI's electric technology laboratory is currently researching energy efficiency and superconductive electrical generation, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES

The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said. The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less. REUTER 
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE

International Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- and medium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen's rise and can only stand levels around 170 yen. He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate level plus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreed upon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations. Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate in stabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. The dollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not say for how long. The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability. Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange rates. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE

The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future, the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER 
JAPAN CLARIFIES FUND MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS

The Finance Ministry has clarified regulations governing fund management, satisfying overseas critics who charged the rules were too tightly-drawn, ministry officials and Western diplomats said. They said "double licensing" has been dropped so a foreign fund management firm need apply only for a licence for its Japanese subsidiary and not for the parent company as well. A foreign investment management company will be permitted to employ only one fund manager in Japan, with another on standby in the home country. Domestic companies must have two. In deciding whether a Japanese subsidiary of a foreign firm is eligible to manage funds in Japan, the ministry will take account of the amount of funds the parent company has under management, a ministry official said. "This should make it very easy for foreign firms to meet the criteria for a licence," he said without elaborating. He said the ministry expects to grant the first investment management licences by the end of June. Some 135 firms, including some 15 foreign companies, will probably be licensed under the new law passed late last year. REUTER 
JAPAN BROKERS SEEK 10 YEAR GOVERNMENT BOND AUCTION

Japanese securities houses have asked the Finance Ministry again to consider introducing auctions of 10-year government bonds, securities sources said. Finance Ministry officials declined comment but said the Ministry has been aware of growing calls from securities houses for 10-year bond auctions. Japanese securities houses also may allow foreign brokers to underwrite more 10-year bonds from April. Four U.S. Banks are expected to receive Finance Ministry approval in late April to operate securities subsidiaries in Japan as long as they hold no more than 50 pct of the capital, bankers said. These firms are likely to join the syndicate, which will increase the number of participants in the 10-year government bond primary market, securities managers said. Each of the 17 current foreign securities houses in the syndicate underwrites 0.07 pct of each issue, they said. In order to expand participation by foreigners, the syndicate must either expand the securities industry's 26 pct share or introduce auctions to the primary market, they said. Local brokers have requested the head of the syndicate, now Fuji Bank Ltd, to increase their share to 30.7 pct but banks oppose any cut in their 74 pct share, bankers said. REUTER 
JAPAN LINE SELLING TANKERS AND BULKERS

Major tanker operator, Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, is selling 20 VLCCs and several bulk carriers for scrap or further trading, industry sources said. The tanker disposals include Japan Orchid (231,722 dwt), Japan Lupinus (233,641 dwt), Sovereign (233,313 dwt), Rosebay (274,531 dwt), Saffron (268,038 dwt) and Cattleya (267,807 dwt), all of which have been reported on the London sale and purchase market, they said, but refused to give further details. Japan Line officials declined to comment. REUTER 
JAPAN JANUARY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION REVISED UP

Japan's January seasonally adjusted industrial production index (base 1980) was revised upwards to 122.3 from a preliminary 122.0, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. The revised adjusted January index was down 0.5 pct from December when it rose 3.6 pct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted January index rose 0.5 pct from a year earlier, after a one pct year-on-year December rise. The adjusted producers' shipment index (base 1980) for January was revised upward to 117.7 from a preliminary 117.4. The index was down 0.7 pct from December when it rose three pct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted index was up 1.0 pct from a year earlier after a 1.4 pct year-on-year December rise. The adjusted index of producers' inventories of finished goods (base 1980) for January was unchanged from a preliminary 105.9. The index was down 0.3 pct from December when it rose 1.1 pct. Unadjusted, the revised index was down 2.3 pct from a year earlier after a 2.1 pct year-on-year drop in December. REUTER 
JAPAN FIRMS SELL GENERATORS FOR SOUTH AMERICAN DAM

A Japanese consortium will supply 10 generators worth some 10 billion yen to a joint Argentine/Paraguay hydroelectric project, a Mitsubishi Electric Corp <MIET.T> official said. The presidents of Mitsubishi Electric, Hitachi Ltd <HIT.T> and Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T>, the three firms in the consortium, will sign the contract with Entidad Binacional Yacyreta, an Argentine public company, later this month. The Export-Import Bank of Japan Ltd will provide yen financing for the project, the official said. REUTER 
BRAZIL AIRLINE SEEN IN BOEING PLANE LEASE DEAL

State-affiliated financial institutions and commercial banks from eight countries are expected to lend a U.S. Leasing company 400 mln dlrs to finance the purchase from Boeing Co <BA> of six Boeing 767 planes that will be leased to Brazil's Varig airline, banking sources said. The deal is expected to be signed in May, covering a 12 year period, with deliveries starting the same month. Japan's share in the deal is expected to be about 14 mln dlrs, part of which will come from the Export-Import Bank of Japan Ltd, the sources said. Canada, France, Italy, Sweden, the U.K., U.S. And West Germany are also involved, they said. REUTER 
Bank of Japan satisfied with yen around current range, senior bank official says



BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE

The Bank of Japan is satisfied with the yen around its current range, a senior central bank official told reporters. He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Paris last month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around current ranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollar rise. Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currency stability, but it can be useful when coordinated with other policies and with other central banks, he said. The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stability will continue for some time, the senior bank official said, but declined to be more specific. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Friday the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, the official cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, a completely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S. Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by government officials seeking to talk the dollar up or down. The senior bank official said he expects Japan's gross national product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more in the fiscal year beginning in April. That would be little changed from the performance expected this year. Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, but the external sector will have a negative impact on GNP of nearly one percentage point, he said. He said there was virtually no room for further monetary policy action to boost the economy. The economy's performance in the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added. The central bank's monetary policy has already done its part in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said. The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over the last year and a half. Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk of inflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said. "We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it may still be wet," he added. Liquidity among private households and especially the corporate sector has increased substantially, he said. The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stock exchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of funds into the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, may continue, he said. The senior official said the Bank of Japan is hoping Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker will be re-appointed when his current term expires later this year. "He's a great man," the official said, adding that more and more people expect his reappointment. Turning to exchange rates, the official said the substantial drop in the dollar is beginning to have an effect on reducing the imbalance in world trade, even though the impact has taken longer than expected to show through. Even the U.S. Trade position has begun to feel the impact, although so far it has not been very strong, he said. REUTER 
OPPOSITION TO PROPOSED SALES TAX SPREADS IN JAPAN

Opposition to government plans to impose a five pct sales tax is spreading nationwide ahead of the start of campaigning for local elections next week, political analysts said. The Asahi Shimbun said 31 of the 47 prefectural assemblies had so far opposed, demanded amendments to, or expressed wariness about the tax. Assemblymen from the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have also joined the opposition against the tax in 11 prefectural assemblies, the daily reported. About 2,600 elections will be held on April 12 and 26 for a wide range of local posts, including 13 governors. The sales tax is one of the main planks of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system. A close aide to Nakasone has said the sales tax issue will have a minimal impact on the local elections because centrist parties by and large support LDP candidates in many of the races for governors. In the assembly elections, even LDP candidates oppose the tax, he said. On March 8, the LDP lost an Upper House by-election in the conservative stronghold of Iwate Prefecture in northern Japan for the first time in 25 years. The opposition socialist winner campaigned on the single issue of the sales tax. The surprise LDP defeat in Iwate, coupled with Nakasone's sagging popularity, has forced the party to compromise with the opposition and agree to postpone public hearings on the fiscal 1987/88 budget to March 19/20 from March 13/14. The opposition parties have been staging recurring parliamentary boycotts to show their disapproval of the sales tax contained in the budget. They returned to the Lower House Budget Committee last Friday but walked out again after a few hours, demanding detailed data on the tax. But parliamentary sources said they are expected to agree in a day or two to dispose of some of 29 bills the LDP will submit. The bills include nine which will become extinct on March 31 unless some action is taken, the sources said. These cover such uncontroversial topics as wages for diplomats and revisions of the law covering court employees. Discussion is also expected of a provisional budget to allow the government to continue operating while debate on the main budget continues beyond the April 1 start of fiscal 1987/88, the sources said. The provisional budget could cover some 50 days and include authorisation for spending on some public works. Otherwise, parliament will go into virtual recess until local elections start on April 12, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S DOWA MINING TO PRODUCE GOLD FROM APRIL

<Dowa Mining Co Ltd> said it will start commercial production of gold, copper, lead and zinc from its Nurukawa Mine in northern Japan in April. A company spokesman said the mine's monthly output is expected to consist of 1,300 tonnes of gold ore and 3,700 of black ore, which consists of copper, lead and zinc ores. A company survey shows the gold ore contains up to 13.3 grams of gold per tonne, he said. Proven gold ore reserves amount to 50,000 tonnes while estimated reserves of gold and black ores total one mln tonnes, he added. REUTER 
U.S. BANKER URGES FASTER JAPANESE LIBERALISATION

Japan should step up the pace of its financial liberalisation if it wants to become a world financial centre equal to New York or London, a leading U.S banker said. "For Tokyo to become the third link in an international capital markets triangle, it will need to create an environment more hospitable to international finance than currently exists," Robert Binney, senior vice-president of Chase Manhattan Bank N.A., Told a group of Japanese members of parliament and financial leaders. Binney said Japan must liberalise its financial markets not just to attract more jobs, capital and taxable income, but also to recycle effectively its vast trade surpluses to help counter growing protectionism in the United States. He called on Japan to remove all controls on deposit interest rates soon and to remove obstacles to the growth of its offshore market. He also said it should fully deregulate its short-term money markets, develop comprehensive futures markets, further open the Tokyo Stock Exchange to foreign membership and remove fixed rate brokerage commissions. Binney also urged Japan to abolish Article 25 of its Securities and Exchange Law which, like the U.S. Glass Steagall Act, separates commercial from investment banking. At the same meeting Goldman Sachs (Japan) Corp president Eugene Atkinson urged Japan to fully de-regulate short-term interest rates, introduce commercial paper and open long-term government bond markets to an auction system. He said Japan should allow securities firms to participate in foreign exchange business and develop over-the-counter stock options and futures. Short-selling of Japanese government cash bonds was a vital hedging mechanism, he added. The group of some 60 Japanese legislators and financial leaders which Atkinson and Binney addressed was recently formed to study ways in which Japan should promote liberalisation of its financial markets. "We should not leave such matters solely to government bureaucrats," Masao Hori, Chairman of the lower house finance committee, told the group. REUTER 
JAPAN'S NEC THREATENS LEGAL ACTION AGAINST SEIKO

NEC Corp <NESI.T> may take legal action to halt introduction of <Seiko Epson Corp>'s NEC-compatible personal computer series, which NEC alleges infringes copyrights for NEC's 9801 V computer series, an NEC official said. "We may have no choice but to take legal action," the NEC official said. A Seiko Epson official said the company's PC 286 series, the first NEC-compatible personal computer, does not infringe on NEC copyrights. He said the company intends to go ahead with plans to market the computers from late April. A Seiko Epson official said of the new machine, "It's compatible with NEC's machine, so it appears similar. But our intention was to develop an original machine." Industry analysts said NEC controls about 70 pct of the domestic personal computer market. They said introduction of NEC-compatible machines could start a price war and cut NEC's profits, as happened to IBM following the introduction of IBM-compatible machines. REUTER 
JAPAN BANKS FACE BIG LOSSES ON PERPETUAL FLOATERS

Japanese banks may have to realize significant losses on their seven billion dlrs in perpetual floating rate notes after the recent collapse of the market, bankers said. How much of a loss is realized in the current fiscal year ending March 31 depends on the accounting treatment recommended by the Finance Ministry. Ministry sources said the Ministry has yet to decide what guidance to give Japanese banks in valuing the perpetual floating rate notes they hold. The notes are held by Japanese city, trust, long-term and regional banks, including their overseas branches. Roughly half of the Japanese banks assess foreign asset portfolios on the basis of current market prices while the others assess them at either the acquisition cost or the current market price, whichever is lower, bankers said. With the market for such perpetuals non-existent, Finance Ministry officials questioned the propriety of using nominal quotations supplied by the notes' lead managers to determine bank book losses. The Ministry is currently awaiting a legal judgement by the National Tax Administration Agency on the propriety of using such quotations, one official said. Banks using current market prices alone to value their holdings can avoid realizing losses now because they can argue that the market is non-existent and hope for a recovery next year, bankers said. But those banks who use acquisition cost to value foreign portfolios cannot look to the market, bankers said. The acquisition cost is obviously higher than the market price, whatever it may be, these banks must realize losses in the current fiscal year. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE

The Bank of Japan is satisfied with the yen around its current range, a senior central bank official told reporters. He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Paris last month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around current ranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollar rise. Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currency stability, but it can be useful when coordinated with other policies and with other central banks, he said. The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stability will continue for some time, the senior bank official said, but declined to be more specific. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Friday the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, the official cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, a completely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S. Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by government officials seeking to talk the dollar up or down. The senior bank official said he expects Japan's gross national product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more in the fiscal year beginning in April. That would be little changed from the performance expected this year. Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, but the external sector will have a negative impact on GNP of nearly one percentage point, he said. He said there was virtually no room for further monetary policy action to boost the economy. The economy's performance in the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added. The central bank's monetary policy has already done its part in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said. The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over the last year and a half. Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk of inflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said. "We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it may still be wet," he added. Liquidity among private households and especially the corporate sector has increased substantially, he said. The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stock exchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of funds into the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, may continue, he said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS NO INTENTION TO ALTER SALES TAX BILL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he had no intention of modifying at the moment a proposed bill introducing a sales tax. "Parliamentary deliberation must be conducted fully before we see whether to revise it or not," Miyazawa told reporters. He also said he had not heard anything about Deputy Premier Shin Kanemaru suggesting modification of the tax. The Japanese press has reported that Kanemaru proposed yesterday a freeze or a modification of the value-added tax as he saw growing public opposition. Debate on the sales tax has been stalled by a sporadic opposition boycott over their objections to the tax. Miyazawa said he did not expect the bill to be altered even after Parliament completes its deliberations. He also said the Government is undecided on the scale of a proposed provisional budget for fiscal 1987 beginning on April 1. The minister declined to comment on wide-spread press speculation that the stop-gap budget would total more than 1,000 billion yen. The Government is working on a provisional budget as the chances of passing a full one by April 1 are virtually nil as a result of the halt in parliamentary business, officials said. The Government wants to include as many economic stimuli as possible in the provisional budget to boost domestic demand, increase imports and reduce its trade surplus, they said. REUTER 
Japan February wholesale prices fall 0.1 pct (0.6 pct January drop) - official



JAPAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT IN FEBRUARY

Japan's overall wholesale price index (base 1980) fell 0.1 pct in February from a month earlier to 86.4 for the second consecutive month-on-month fall, the Bank of Japan said. Wholesale prices fell 0.6 pct in January from December. The index fell 9.1 pct from a year earlier for the 21st straight year-on-year drop, the central bank said. The reduced month-on-month drop mainly stemmed from the recovery in world crude oil prices, it said. On a customs-cleared basis, crude oil prices rose to around 17 dlrs a barrel in February from about 15 dlrs in January. The average value of the yen against the dollar rose 0.8 pct to 153.50 in February from 154.67 in January and was up 16.8 pct from 184.55 a year earlier, the bank said. The export price index in February fell 0.7 pct from a month earlier reflecting price cuts in export products like cars and precision instruments due to severe foreign competition. The index was down 7.1 pct from a year earlier. The import price index rose 1.1 pct from a month earlier to 57.4 for the sixth successive month-on-month gain mainly due to the continued strength of world crude oil prices. But the index was down 29 pct from a year earlier. The domestic price index fell 0.1 pct to 91.9 in February, its 24th straight monthly drop, mainly reflecting falls in prices of home appliances such as colour televisions due to severe sales competition at home. Lower edible oil prices added to the decline. The index was down 6.7 pct from a year earlier. The domestic index marked its largest year-on-year drop of 7.1 pct in January since the central bank started compiling such statistics in 1960 under its current system. Wholesale prices are likely to turn upward in March as higher world crude oil and raw material prices are expected, the bank said. REUTER 
MITSUBISHI BANK <MITB.T> PLANS 40 MLN N.Z. DLR CD

Mitsubishi Bank Ltd's Hong Kong branch is planning a 40 mln New Zealand dlr certificate of deposit, CD, issue, banking sources said. The three-year CDs are denominated in 100,000 dlr units and will carry interest at 37.5 basis points below the three-month New Zealand bank bill rate. Payment date is expected to be around April 1. ANZ Securities Asia Ltd is lead manager for the issue. REUTER 
TOYOTA SEEN GETTING MANILA APPROVAL FOR CAR OUTPUT

Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> of Japan is expected to get approval from a Philippine government agency to produce cars and other items here, government sources said. This follows the company's proposal to invest about 400 mln pesos and generate about 100 mln dlrs in export earnings over five years. The sources said Toyota is likely to be brought into the government-backed Progressive Car Manufacturing Program (PCMP), which since the 1970s has controlled the number of car makers. The PCMP is administered by the Board of Investments (BOI), which screens investments by foreigners and locals. The sources said Toyota had also applied to produce wiring harness, hardboard and ferro-silicone for local and export markets. It has not yet said what kind of cars it will make. The sources did not say when BOI would announce its decision on the Toyota application. In 1984 Toyota severed its ties with <Delta Motor Corp>, its local partner for more than 20 years, because the latter was suffering financial difficulties. The state-owned Philippine National Bank later foreclosed on Delta's assets and the sources said Toyota is now negotiating to buy these. The government sources also said Toyota was in the final stages of negotiations with a new local partner. Toyota would be the third participant in the PCMP, joining <Pilipinas Nissan Inc> and <Philippine Automotive Manufacturing Corp>, formerly Canlubang Automotive Resources Corp. Two U.S. Car firms, General Motors Corp <GM.N> and Ford Motor Co <F.N>, withdrew from the local car market shortly after the country was hit by a financial crisis in 1983. REUTER 
JAPAN TO RELEASE GNP FIGURES LATER TODAY

The Economic Planning Agency will announce gross national product (GNP) figures for the October/December quarter today at 1700 hrs local time (0800 gmt), Agency officials told Reuters. In the July/September quarter, GNP rose 0.6 pct from the previous three months. REUTER 
KOBE RUBBER EXCHANGE TO EXTEND TRADING HOURS

The Kobe Rubber Exchange said it will extend its trading hours from May 1 to enable more operators to use the exchange. Subject to Ministry of International Trade and Industry approval, the Exchange will add a sixth session starting at 1700 local time, and will close the account for trading at the new session the following day before the opening call starts at 0930 local time, an Exchange official said. Trading on the Singapore rubber market, a major producer price indicator for Japanese end-users, is usually active after the end of the current final session here. The introduction of the new session will enable participants to trade overnight after taking account of Singapore rubber prices, because brokers and members who are designated by the Kobe Exchange are allowed to add the volume traded overnight to the new final session before the opening session starts next day, the official said. But because the Kobe Exchange uses the auction system which sets a fixed price at each session, the price of contracts traded overnight should be a fixed price settled at the sixth session, he added. Industry sources said they expected the Ministry to approve the plan because it has encouraged the Japanese futures industry to expand and internationalise. The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry, TOCOM, which also trades rubber futures in Japan, said it has no plans to introduce an extra session. TOCOM also has five rubber trading sessions a day. Four sessions start 15 minutes later than Kobe Exchange sessions, but both Exchanges' final sessions start at the same time. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK MARKET AVERAGE RISES 99.36 TO RECORD CLOSING HIGH OF 21,514.73



JAPAN M-2 PLUS CD MONEY SUPPLY ROSE 8.8 PCT IN YEAR TO FEBRUARY (JAN 8.6) - OFFICIAL



JAPAN FEBRUARY MONEY SUPPLY RISES 8.8 PCT

Japan's broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificate of deposits (CDs) rose a preliminary 8.8 pct in February from a year earlier, compared with an 8.6 pct rise in January, the Bank of Japan said. The seasonally adjusted February average of M-2 plus CDs supply rose 0.8 pct from January, it said. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs stood at an average 336,000 billion yen in February compared with 337,100 billion yen in January. REUTER 
Japan October/December GNP up 0.8 pct (July/Sept revised 0.7 rise) - official



Japan GNP rises 2.5 pct in calendar 1986 (4.7 pct in 1985) - official



JAPAN OCTOBER/DECEMBER GNP RISES 0.8 PCT

Japan's gross national product (GNP) rose a real 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter after an upwardly revised 0.7 pct increase the previous three months, the Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said. The rise in the July/September quarter had originally been put at 0.6 pct. The annualized growth rate accelerated to 3.2 pct in October/December from 3.0 pct in July/September. In the 1986 calendar year, GNP rose 2.5 pct, after a 4.7 pct increase in 1985. Last year's performance was the worst since 1974, when GNP fell 1.4 pct. Agency officials blamed the strong yen for depressing exports and manufacturing industry. In nominal terms, GNP rose 0.5 pct in the October/December quarter, reflecting stable prices, after a one pct increase in the previous three months, the Agency said. Domestic real demand increased 0.6 pct in October/December, after a one pct rise the previous quarter. Domestic demand contributed 0.5 percentage point to real GNP growth in October/December, while foreign trade added 0.2. The figures do not tally exactly due to rounding. In July/September, domestic demand contributed one percentage point to GNP growth while foreign trade knocked off 0.3 point. Of the 0.2 point contribution of foreign trade to GNP last quarter, falling exports knocked off 0.2 while falling imports contributed 0.4 point. Total export volume fell 1.2 pct quarter on quarter in October/December. Imports also fell, by 2.9 pct. Of the 0.5 point contribution of domestic demand to October/December GNP growth, the private sector accounted for 0.4 point and the public sector, 0.2. The private sector contribution included 0.3 point for housebuilding, 0.4 for corporate capital outlays and 0.1 for stockbuilding. Consumer spending had a 0.4 negative impact. REUTER 
JAPAN OFFICIALS SEE DIFFICULTY HITTING GNP TARGET

The government will find it very difficult to achieve its new gross national product (GNP) forecast of three pct growth in the fiscal year ending March 31, Economic Planning Agency officials said. They made the comment to reporters after news that GNP rose 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter, after a 0.7 pct increase the previous three months. For Japan to achieve three pct growth in 1986/87, GNP in the January/March period would have to grow 2.6 pct from October/December, the officials said. The government lowered its GNP forecast for 1986/87 from four pct last December. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 300 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 300 billion yen of financing bills tomorrow under a 55-day repurchase accord maturing on May 12, money traders said. The bills are meant to soak up a projected money market surplus due largely to coupon and principle payments of a previously issued Japanese National Railways bond. The yield on the bills for sales to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9497 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate for two-month commercial bills and the 4.43/32 pct yield on two-month certificates of deposit today. The sale will raise the bill supply to 1,500 billion yen. REUTER 
S.KOREA SAYS JAPAN COMPLAINS TO GATT ON TRADE PLAN

Japan has complained to the secretariat of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that South Korea's five-year plan to cut its trade deficit with Japan breaks GATT rules, Trade Ministry officials here said. They said Japan submitted a report earlier this month alleging South Korea's plan to import less from Japan and more from the U.S. And elsewhere was tantamount to creating non-tariff trade barriers. South Korea unveiled the plan in November. It said it hoped to narrow its trade deficit with Japan to two billion dlrs by 1991. South Korea's trade deficit with Japan was a record 5.45 billion dlrs in 1986, and rose to 752 mln dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from 727 mln in the same 1986 period. The plan envisages giving incentives to importers not to import Japanese goods, and to exporters to sell more to Japan. The officials said they believed the Japanese action, one step short of filing a suit, was designed to bring South Korea to the negotiating table and stop the plan. The Seoul government wants Tokyo to ease various import restrictions and simplify customs inspections for South Korean goods to help reduce the trade deficit. REUTER 
JAPAN SEEN REDUCING BEEF, PORK INTERVENTION PRICES

The Agriculture Ministry is expected to reduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in 1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not been set yet, industry sources said. Production prices, the basis for setting intervention prices, have been falling because of declining compound feed prices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said. Last November an advisory panel urged the government to work on reducing officially set high farm product prices to levels closer to international values, the sources added. In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisation zone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers. The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-government Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stock operation in the wholesale market. The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will be set by the end of March after an advisory panel to the Agriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting on March 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is 1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said. The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from dairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is 1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540 yen per kilo and the ceiling 760. They said the domestic beef intervention price influences imported beef selling prices on the domestic market. Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-government body imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers or processors in line with the standard price of other beef categories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beef prices, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY

New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in February rose to six vessels totalling 329,999 gross tons from three ships of 79,499 tons in January, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a year earlier, an association official said. The backlog of orders at end-February was 157 ships of 4.41 mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month earlier and 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an association official said. REUTER 
JAPAN LINE FLOATS STOCK TO HELP RESTORE SOLVENCY

Major tanker operator Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T> said it will raise seven billion yen by issuing 63.66 mln shares at 110 yen each to help reduce debt and restore profitability within two years. Half of the sum raised will be returned to creditor banks which in December were asked to temporarily waive part of their loan repayments, it said. The other half will be used to bolster operations hit by the yen's steep appreciation and the global shipping slump, the company added. MORE 
JAPAN FIRMS SEEK OIL EQUIPMENT DEAL WITH HUNGARY

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> and Mitsui and Co Ltd <MITS.T> are likely to win an order for oil-related equipment worth about 600 mln yen this week from a Hungarian company trading in equipment for the chemical industry, sources in the industry said. The equipment, developed by Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD.AS>, removes water from carbonic acid gas which is injected into oil wells to increase oil production. The sources said the Hungarian company, Chemokomplex, has asked the World Bank for money to buy the equipment. Hungary gets 90 pct of its crude oil from the Soviet Union. REUTER 
NISSHO IWAI PROPOSES WESTINGHOUSE FOR AIRPORT

<Nissho Iwai Corp> proposes to install a transport system built by Westinghouse Electric Corp <WX> of the U.S. In Japan's six billion dlr offshore airport at Osaka, western Japan, a Nissho Iwai spokesman said. It also proposed <Chiyoda Chemical Engineering and Construction Co> and <Hitachi Zosen Corp> install the unmanned system, which will transport people between terminals. He would not confirm a local report which said the system would cost about 30 mln dlrs. The proposal is one of several being considered. The U.S., Europe and South Korea are pushing hard for greater foreign participation. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 300 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 300 billion yen of financing bills tomorrow under a 55-day repurchase accord maturing on May 12, money traders said. The bills are meant to soak up a projected money market surplus due largely to coupon and principle payments of a previously issued Japanese National Railways bond. The yield on the bills for sales to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9497 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate for two-month commercial bills and the 4.43/32 pct yield on two-month certificates of deposit today. The sale will raise the bill supply to 1,500 billion yen. REUTER 
DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY

Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish, and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japan takes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Paris accord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here. "The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of 150.00 yen and to fall even below that level," a senior dealer at one leading bank said. The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable at around 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at a meeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability. Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term, but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewed inflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S. Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit. Dealers generally doubted whether any economic package Japan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce its trade surplus significantly, and said such measures would probably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar. Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package of measures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boost domestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus. But debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed imposition of a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, the dealers said. If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure on the dollar, they said. The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changed since before the Paris accord, they added. "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due to a still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debt crisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension of interest payments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of the Reagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra arms scandal," said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank. "There is a possibility that the dollar may decline to around 140.00 yen by the end of this year," said Chemical Bank Tokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi. But operators find it hard to push the dollar either way for fear of possible concerted central bank intervention. Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S. Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask for quotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollar when it rose to 1.87 marks. The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in London when it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said. But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of central bank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's decline because many dealers are likely to await such dollar buying intervention as a chance to sell dollars. However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branch assistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The dollar will not show drastic movement at least to the end of March." Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see any strong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their books for the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollar would give Japanese institutional investors paper losses on their foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest in purchases of U.S. Treasury securities. U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making any comments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS NO INTENTION TO ALTER SALES TAX BILL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he had no intention of modifying at the moment a proposed bill introducing a sales tax. "Parliamentary deliberation must be conducted fully before we see whether to revise it or not," Miyazawa told reporters. He also said he had not heard anything about Deputy Premier Shin Kanemaru suggesting modification of the tax. The Japanese press has reported that Kanemaru proposed yesterday a freeze or a modification of the value-added tax as he saw growing public opposition. Debate on the sales tax has been stalled by a sporadic opposition boycott over their objections to the tax. Miyazawa said he did not expect the bill to be altered even after Parliament completes its deliberations. He also said the Government is undecided on the scale of a proposed provisional budget for fiscal 1987 beginning on April 1. The minister declined to comment on wide-spread press speculation that the stop-gap budget would total more than 1,000 billion yen. Reuter 
IRAN SAID TO ATTACK CYPRIOT TANKER

A Cypriot tanker was set ablaze in the Persian Gulf yesterday after an Iranian gunboat fired missiles at it, shipping sources quoting reports from Japanese tankers said today. No casualties were seen and the tanker Pivot, laden with crude oil, was towed towards Dubai by tugs after they put out the fire, the sources said. Iranian gunboats usually check a ship's nationality and cargo before attacking but the Pivot was hit near Bu Musa island without warning, they added. Reuter 
ECONOMISTS SEE SLUGGISH JAPANESE ECONOMY AHEAD

The Japanese economy will remain sluggish in the months ahead after turning in its worst performance for 12 years in 1986, private economists said. Consumer spending, a main driving force of domestic demand, was likely to remain lacklustre although brisk housing and business investment would help sustain the economy this year, the economists said. They said they were shocked by an Economic Planning Agency report today that private spending fell 0.7 pct in the Oct/Dec quarter for the first time in 12 years. The report said Japan's gross national product rose a real 0.8 pct in Oct/Dec after a revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous quarter. It said GNP growth for 1986 was a real 2.5 pct, down from 4.7 pct in 1985. Agency officials said this was the worst performance since 1974 when GNP contracted 1.4 pct in the wake of the first oil crisis. They expressed concern about the 0.7 pct decline in consumer spending in the final quarter of 1986 but said it was only temporary as exceptionally warm winter weather had depressed retail sales. But most private economists disagreed and said consumers were likely to remain pessimistic in coming months as they saw their real income level off. "Sure, consumers may have spent less on winter clothes or heating apparatus because of the warm winter this year, but they have done so because they have become even more uneasy about their future pay rises," said Shoji Saito, general manager of Mitsui Bank's economic research division. He said the outlook for pay increases was gloomy because of falling employment in many industries, particularly those hit hard by the yen's rise. Masao Suzaki, senior economist at the Bank of Tokyo, said weakened consumer confidence was the most worrying factor. Without brisk consumer spending, Japan can hardly achieve domestically generated economic growth as the government has put a lid on fiscal measures, he said. Other economists said the 0.8 pct growth registered in Oct/Dec may have been inflated by special factors, including exceptionally heavy spending in the public sector. Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute, said the 14.4 pct increase in public sector spending in Oct/Dec resulted from an issue of gold coins. "This is just a one-shot spending and we can't expect that high level of public-sector consumption in the following quarter," Takahashi said. Agency officials said public spending would have risen 1.1 pct in Oct/Dec without the issue, which marked 60 years of Emperor Hirohito's reign. Takahashi said the economy might contract in the current quarter given the lack of additional significant government spending and sluggish consumer spending. Saito said the most effective government action would be income tax cuts and the postponement beyond next January of a proposed controversial sales tax. REUTER 
JAPAN ALERTS GATT TO SOUTH KOREA IMPORT PLAN

Japan told the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that South Korea's five-year import diversification plan violated the spirit of the world trade governing body, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. The notification came in Japan's answer to a recent GATT questionnaire on unfair trade practices, the spokesman said. In the five-year plan, which starts this year, South Korea aims to reduce its dependency on Japan as a source of imported goods and to increase imports from the U.S. And Europe. Japan's move came after several unsuccessful bilateral negotiations on the plan, the spokesman said. "The notification does not represent anything resembling a formal complaint, nor is it intended to pressure South Korea. It is a routine procedure followed by all other GATT member states." Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE IS "QUITE CONFIDENT" JAPAN WILL STIMULATE ITS ECONOMY



YEN USURPS GODZILLA AS JAPAN'S FAVOURITE HORROR

"Endaka," the strong yen, has usurped "Godzilla Versus the Sea Monster" as Japan's favourite horror story. The yen's 40 pct surge against the dollar over the last two years has frightened foreigners with tales of the 40 dlr melon, the 120 dlr taxi ride from the airport and rents of 15,000 dlrs a month. But "endaka," like many Japanese products, is for foreign consumption, locals and long-time foreign residents said. "It's not really that expensive. I don't pay attention to the cost of living," said Cheryl Richmond, a 25-year-old Canadian teacher of English in Tokyo. Richmond said she earns 1,635 dlrs a month by "chatting" 40 hours a week in English to Japanese who hope to learn the language. For 326 dlrs a month she rents a sunny, quiet two-room flat some 20 minutes by train from Shinjuku, one of Tokyo's prime business and entertainment districts, and has managed to send home an average of 320 dlrs a month. She spends less than 6.50 dlrs a day on food despite eating out once a day. "For lunch I buy the teishoku (daily special) which comes with soba (buckwheat noodles) or pork cutlet, pickles, miso soup, rice and tea," although she takes only coffee for breakfast and a sandwich for dinner. No one argues that Tokyo is cheap, but long-time residents see no need to spend the 2,000 to 15,000 dlrs a month spent by foreign firms to house executives in Western-style homes. The companies feel otherwise. They say they must pay the price to bring over the best people needed to back up their push into Japan's increasingly lucrative markets. "You can't expect people to move from New York or Sydney and trade down. It's not reasonable," said a spokesman for International Business Machines Corp (IBM), which supports Western lifestyles for more than 350 foreigners in Tokyo. Tokyo is the world's most expensive city for business travellers, a survey issued this month by Employment Conditions Abroad said. It found that businessmen visiting Tokyo spend on average more than 300 dlrs a day. While the businessmen have little choice but to come here, many tourists, especially those from Europe, are opting to visit sunnier and cheaper climes in Southeast Asia. The Japan Tourist Bureau estimates "endaka" caused an 11.5 pct drop in the number of foreign visitors to Japan last year. Those who came tried to cut back on expenses, chiefly by curtailing shopping, it said. To help combat "endaka" and the slump in tourism, the Tourist Bureau prepared a pamphlet, "Economical Travel in Japan." It gives budget-saving tips on finding medium-priced business hotels and Japanese-style inns, cheap sushi and public baths while getting a "revealing glimpse of Japanese in their daily lives." Residents of Okubo House, a transit hotel in Tokyo's Shin-Okubo love hotel district, offer even more savvy advice. For 9.80 dlrs a night, Scott Perry, a 23-year-old budding English teacher from New Zealand, shares an unheated, berth-sized twin-room in the Japanese "flop house." Perry has budgeted 26 to 33 dlrs a day while he looks for work. "Normally I eat 'teishoku' for 400 yen but sometimes I'll splurge at Shakey's where for 550 yen you can eat unlimited pizza for at least two hours." Still, there are the extras that dent the budget. "I had to spend 600 yen today to dry-clean my suit coat," he said. REUTER 
JAPAN EARTHQUAKE KILLS ONE, CUTS PHONE LINES

A very strong earthquake which struck southwest Japan killed one person and injured at least three, cracked walls and cut telephone lines, authorities said. The quake, at 0336 GMT, registered 6.9 on the Richter scale, and officials issued warnings of tidal waves of up to two metres high, they said. A man died in Miyazaki prefecture when his truck overturned, and another was seriously hurt when his roof caved in, police said. Two primary school children were hurt by flying shards of glass as they sat in their classroom. The extent of their injuries was not immediately known. A police spokesman in the western Kyushu city of Miyazaki, one of the worst hit areas, said walls cracked all over town. Weather officials told Reuters the quake's epicentre was 50 km underground and 40 km offshore east of the city of Hyuga, on Kyushu's eastern coast. Maritime Safety Agency authorities ordered fishermen along the Kyushu coast to return to port, and dispatched a fleet of six search boats to see them safely back. Telephone links with the island were badly disrupted and all trains in the area were been stopped as a precaution, police said. REUTER 
GLOBAL TRADING IN YEN BOND FUTURES EXPECTED SOON

Global trading of yen bond futures is just around the corner and they are expected to be listed soon on the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) and the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), bond managers said. "Internationalisation of the yen through expansion of overseas portfolios in yen assets is the key to the success of global trading of yen bond futures," said Katsuyuki Okayasu, general manager of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's bond division. "But Tokyo-based orders are necessary for a primary stimulus for the LIFFE yen bond futures market," said Tetsuya Dezuka, deputy general manager of the money market section of New Japan Securities Co Ltd, one of the most active yen bond brokers in London. Healthy growth of yen bond futures markets depends basically on substantial liquidity in cash yen bond markets overseas and on the yen becoming attractive to traders there, dealers said. Outstanding yen cash bonds worldwide stand at around 140,000 billion yen, with most held in Japan, they said. An agreement between CBOT and LIFFE in early February on mutual settlements is expected to link U.S. Treasury bond futures trading in London and Chicago, enabling a continuous 12-hour session, bond managers here said, adding the move was made with yen bond futures trading in mind. LIFFE is preparing for an early listing of yen bond futures after receiving approval from Japan's Finance Ministry last December. But futures markets will never take root unless they are backed by substantial liquidity in cash bond markets, dealers said. Daily transactions in the London yen cash bond market now stand at 200 to 300 billion yen, but the extent of investor- linked transactions is unknown, securities bond managers said. "Japanese corporations have been actively setting up their financing companies in London, suggesting they increasingly are engaging in, not only fund raising, but management there," Dezuka said. The steep increase in the number of branches of Japanese securities houses in London and the growing numbers of U.S. And U.K. Brokers coming to Tokyo has helped the London market's growth, dealers said. Internationalisation of the yen is also likely to be promoted by yen bond trading in Chicago and New York later this year, securities managers said. The recent removal of a key regulatory obstacle by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will allow the CBOT to apply to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a yen bond futures contract, they said. The ruling removed a regulation which prohibited trading futures of designated foreign government debt securities not located in the issuing country. Fundamental Brokers Inc, a major U.S. Brokers' broker, has decided to launch yen bond broking on its display system in New York as early as April. CBOT's start of an evening session, planned for the end of April, will also multiply yen bond futures trading, a Nomura Securities Co Ltd bond manager said. But there are still obstacles to trading on the London market. "Problems concerning cash bond delivery and clearing are major obstacles for an early launching at LIFFE," said Koki Chiyojima, deputy general manager of Nikko Securities Co Ltd's bond administration division. Nikko Securities Co Ltd, one of the big four Japanese securities houses, is responsible for corresponding with LIFFE on these matters. Japan's Finance Ministry will start issuing bonds with coupon payment of either March and September, or June and December from April 1, matching futures delivery months. The ministry now pays coupons in January, June, July and December. When delivery months and coupon payments do not match, a 20 pct withholding tax is imposed on interest earned by non-resident bond holders, a deterrent to LIFFE, securities managers said. LIFFE is likely to wait until the outstanding amount of bonds with matching months increases to over several billion yen, bond managers said. These bonds will be used for deliveries, as they are expected to be the cheapest deliverable issues due to low interest rates, they said. Market participants here expect a clearing organisation to be set up by the time they have substantial deliverable cash issues, making overseas listings probable in the latter half of 1987. REUTER 
JAPAN TO ADOPT ITS LARGEST-EVER PROVISIONAL BUDGET

A parliamentary boycott by opposition members has forced the government to compile its largest-ever provisional budget, finance ministry officials said. The 7,900 billion yen budget for the first 50 days of fiscal 1988 starting April exceeds the previous record of 3,040 billion yen for an 11-day budget in fiscal 1984. An on-again, off-again parliamentary boycott by opposition parties over a proposed five pct sales tax has prevented passage of the full 1987/88 budget within the current year ending March 31. The stop-gap budget, which is expected to pass parliament on March 31, is designed to respond to mounting calls for economic stimulus from domestic industries, hard hit by the yen's sharp rise, officials said. It will include as much as 1,800 billion yen for public works, about 30 pct of the 6,000 billion yen earmarked for such works in the full budget. Traditionally, a provisional budget covers only day-to-day mandatory expenses. The government also expects the budget to meet pressure from trading partners for an expansion of Japanese domestic demand, they said. The budget includes expenditures for a program to create 300,000 jobs and other reflationary measures, the officials said. They quoted ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) secretary general Noboru Takeshita as telling opposition party officials yesterday that the budget should include as much pump-priming as possible. Economists said confidence of opposition members in their campaign to scrap the sales tax has been heightened by their success in forcing the adoption of a stop-gap budget and could lead to even further delays in passing the full budget. The result may be that the government will have to delay its planned announcement of a set of pump-priming measures in April, economists said. That package is expected to include a plan to carry out more than 80 pct of total 1987/88 public works in the first half of the fiscal year, a government official said. Japanese press reports said some LDP executives suggested Nakasone may have to give up plans to visit Washington in April because of the sales tax confrontation. Nakasone hopes to meet President Reagan to prepare for the economic summit of seven major industrial democracies in June, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN EARTHQUAKE KILLS ONE, CUTS PHONE LINES

A very strong earthquake that struck southwest Japan killed one person and injured at least three, cracked walls and cut telephone lines, authorities said. The quake, at 0336 GMT, registered 6.9 on the Richter scale, and officials issued warnings of tidal waves of up to two metres high, they said. A man died in Miyazaki prefecture when his truck overturned, and another was seriously hurt when his roof caved in, police said. Two primary school children were hurt by flying shards of glass as they sat in their classroom. The extent of their injuries was not immediately known. A police spokesman in the western Kyushu city of Miyazaki, one of the worst hit areas, said walls cracked all over town. Weather officials told Reuters the quake's epicentre was 50 km underground and 40 km offshore east of the city of Hyuga, on Kyushu's eastern coast. Maritime Safety Agency authorities ordered fishermen along the Kyushu coast to return to port, and dispatched a fleet of six search boats to see them safely back. Telephone links with the island were badly disrupted and all trains in the area were been stopped as a precaution, police said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO ALLOW MORE FOREIGN BROKERS AT AUCTIONS

The Finance Ministry said it will allow more foreign brokers to participate in government note auctions from April by abolishing a requirement that participants have current accounts with the Bank of Japan. This will allow 18 more Japanese branches of foreign-owned brokerages to bid, it said. Currently 22 foreign brokers are allowed to bid. Bidders for two, three and four-year notes must be members of the underwriting syndicate for five-year discount notes and 10 and 20-year government bonds. New tender participants are: Vickers da Costa Ltd; Bache Securities Ltd; Smith Barney, Harris Upham International Inc; Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd; Kidder Peabody and Co Ltd; Goldman, Sachs International Corp; Morgan Stanley Co Ltd; S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd; First Boston Co Ltd; Kleinwort Benson International Inc; Schroder Securities Ltd; Deutsche Bank AG; EF Hutton Ltd; Shearson Lehman Brothers Asia Inc; Dresdner Bank AG; Swiss Union Philips and Drew Ltd; Sogen Security Corp and Swiss Bank Corp International Asia Inc. Only these 18 Japanese branches of foreign-owned brokers would meet other existing requirements to participate. REUTER 
BOYCOTT FORCES NAKASONE TO ADOPT STOP-GAP BUDGET

An on-off parliamentary boycott has forced Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone to adopt a provisional budget, government officials said. Economic analysts saw this as another setback in Nakasone's plans to overhaul the Japanese tax system. The parliamentary boycott by opposition parties over Nakasone's plans for a five per cent sales tax has made it impossible for the full 1987-88 budget to be passed by the start of the fiscal year on April 1, government officials said. Reuter 
ROTTERDAM SIGNS COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH TOKYO

The city of Rotterdam today signed an agreement in principle to cooperate with the AOMI Cargo Distribution Centre in Tokyo. Acting Mayor Roel den Dunnen said that cooperation between private and public entities in the Tokyo and Rotterdam area, and a fruitful exchange of information have a favourable influence on the flow of goods and services between the two countries. The AOMI Cargo Distribution Center, which will start operating in October this year, signed a similar agreement with Rotterdam's twinned-port of Seattle last September. Reuter 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS RECOVERY

Japan's ailing shipbuilding industry plans to refloat itself in a few years from the twin rocks of recession and a strong yen through capacity and workforce cuts and greater use of computers, industry sources told Reuters. The salvage measures, which include a government-sponsored rationalisation program, are aimed at clawing back some of the market which Japan, the world leader, has lost to South Korea through currency and labour cost disadvantages, they said. The sources said South Korea's yards are now some 35 pct more competitive than Japan's due to such factors. The government plans to help the industry shed 20 pct of current capacity within two years through mergers and regrouping under legislation put before Parliament this month and likely to be approved by May or June, the sources said. They said from September a semi-government body will assure repayment of about 50 billion yen in liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess capacity, and another 30 billion for buying unneeded land and equipment. Last Friday, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan applied to the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash tonnage built to about half of total capacity for a year from April 1. The commission has held several hearings with the industry and approval should be given this month, the sources said. A clampdown on output over one or two years combined with a planned cost-cutting and streamlining program and state support should help Japanese yards recover their international competitiveness, they said. Under the cartel proposals, 33 yards each capable of building ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes would build a maximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) in 1987/88. This is about half of total capacity. This will ease the cut-throat competition which forced most yards to sign orders below cost, the sources said. The industry is likely to seek to renew the cartel for 1988/89 as the Transport Ministry sees new orders falling to 3.1 mln CGRT in 1988/89 from 3.3 mln in 1987/88, they said. The rationalisation program includes a cut of 20,000 to 30,000 of the estimated 100,000 workers in the industry between 1986 and 1989. Japanese yards topped world order books at end-December, followed by South Korea and Taiwan, according to Lloyd's Register of Shipping. However, falling orders and declining international competitiveness due to the strong yen led to heavy losses in the industry, the sources said. Four of Japan's six major heavy machinery and shipbuilding companies reported current deficits in the first half of the year to March 31 and five of them are expected to report current deficits for the whole of 1986/7, they said. The shipbuilding companies' streamlining program will raise productivity to compete with South Korean yards which have also been hard hit by declining orders and low ship prices in recnt years, the sources said. In Japan, no single yard leads the industry, resulting in fierce competition and slow progress in reducing capacity. The two largest firms -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T> -- account for only 30 pct of ships built, the sources said. "World shipowners hope Japanese yards can manage to ride out the recession as their technology is the best in the world," said an official at a major Japanese shipping company. The Japanese merchant fleet, the largest after Liberia's, has no intention of shifting to other countries to buy ships, and this will encourage Japanese yards, the sources said. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - ASIAN PROPERTY MARKET

Property looks set to continue to provide good returns on investment in most major cities in Asia and Australia this year. A Reuter poll of property analysts, bankers and economists around the region shows better returns are often more likely to come from buying and selling real estate than from rental income. In central Tokyo, property analysts project commercial land prices will rise this year by 10 to 20 pct after last year's 53.8 pct jump. The main draw for local and foreign investors in Japan is Tokyo, where the top price paid for a central commercial property last year was 169,000 dlrs a square meter. A building in land-poor Singapore recently sold for 3,300 dlrs a meter. But the analysts said Tokyo rents could level off as supply increases slightly and the strong yen puts prices out of reach of foreign investors. Japanese investors, spurred by the yen's rise, are spending record sums on property abroad, partly elsewhere in Asia, but in particular in the U.S., Where Japanese investment could double this year to 10 billion dlrs, the analysts said. The analysts forecast that Hong Kong property prices will rise steadily over the next few years, although a surge in construction will limit increases in some areas. Property sales have become increasingly popular because in some sectors of the market real estate prices, as in several cities in the region, have already outpaced rent yields. "We still see prices creeping up steadily and I don't see why the trend should not continue over the next few months," said Gareth Williams, a partner of land agent Vigers Hong Kong. But he warned investors to bear in mind the political risk linked to the return of the colony to China in 1997. In several other countries, analysts predicted at least some rise in property values, which in one or two cases, such as Thailand, could help spark a construction boom. Bankers and economists in Bangkok said they expect at least seven pct growth this year in private sector construction as a result of government assistance, low mortgage rates and a generally bullish economic outlook. Increased confidence in the economy has also improved the outlook for property in Manila after a three-year slump, one Philippine developer said. Taiwan's property market is also set to turn around after five years in the doldrums, according to property developers in Taipei. They, like counterparts in many of the region's capitals, cited low interest rates as a major factor. One leading broker said the property market had become an attractive investment in Taiwan, noting property development yields of up to 15 pct. Jakarta too has plenty of new office towers. Construction has helped cut rents to half the levels of the early 1980s, though foreigners usually have to rent because of limits on property ownership, as in many parts of Asia. In contrast, Australia's easing of rules on foreign investment in property, combined with financial deregulation and a weaker dollar, has helped spark overseas interest in the market, analysts said. But this has not always meant sales. "What we have seen is an increase in inquiries, particularly from Japan, but this has yet to show itself in many new deals being done," said Allan Farrar, executive director (real estate) of Elders IXL Ltd's pastoral group. Yields on prime Sydney office buildings average 6.5 pct, and one analyst forecast a 20 pct jump in rents this year after 15 pct rises in each of the past two years. REUTER... 
JAPAN MARCH INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS FALLS

Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus fell to 1.89 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of March from a 1.91 billion surplus a year earlier, the Ministry of Finance said. The March interim surplus compared with a 1.70 billion dlr surplus in the same February period. FOB exports in the first 10 days of March rose 5.8 pct from a year earlier to 5.50 billion dlrs and CIF imports rose 9.7 pct to 3.61 billion. The average yen/dollar rate used for the statistics was 153.67 yen against 181.23 a year earlier. REUTER 
OSAKA POSTPONES STOCK FUTURES CONTRACT

The Osaka Stock Exchange has postponed its planned April 6 launch of a futures contract tied to stock market movements until after parliament considers a bill to cut tax on futures transactions, an exchange official said. Opposition parties have disrupted all parliamentary proceedings to protest government plans for a new sales tax. The bill would reduce the tax to 0.0125 pct of the transaction value from the current 0.2 pct, the exchange said. The Osaka futures contract will be for a package of 50 issues selected from the 225 stocks that make up the Nikkei average on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD RENEWS JAPAN SUPPLY PACT

The Australian Wheat Board (AWB) expects to sell about 900,000 tonnes of wheat to the Japanese Food Agency this year after renewing its annual supply agreement, AWB general manager Ron Paice said. Under the agreement, the AWB makes the wheat available and sells into the Food Agency's regular tenders, he said in a statement. He noted that the Board has sold more than three mln tonnes to Japan in the past three years. REUTER 
FOREIGN SHARE IN JAPAN BOND SYNDICATE BOOSTED

The Finance Ministry approved the banking industry's plan to cut its share in the government bond underwriting syndicate to 73.8 pct from 74 pct from April 1 to allow six foreign securities firms to participate, a ministry spokesman said. Local and foreign securities housess may now underwrite 26.2 pct of 10-year bonds, up from 26 pct previously. Under a separate agreement, Japanese and foreign brokers will allow the latter, including the six newcomers, to underwrite five pct of the enlarged share, up from 1.19 pct, underwriting sources said. The six new foreign brokers are <E.F. Hutton and Co Inc>, <Shearson Lehman Brothers Asia Inc>, Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>, <Swiss Bank Corp International Asia Inc>, <Sogen Security Corp> and <Swiss Union Philips and Drew Ltd>. The syndicate agreed after negotiation in April 1982 that 26 pct of 10-year government bonds should be underwritten by 93 securities firms, 17 of them foreign, and 74 pct by banks. The ministry later approved the arrangement. The Finance Ministry is also considering public tender of notes of over four-year maturity, adding to the current two, three and four-year note auction, the ministry official said. The ministry has decided to lower the eligibility standard for foreign brokers to participate in government note auctions by abolishing a requirement that participants have current accounts with the bank of Japan, the official said. A request by four foreign banks to join the bond underwriting syndicate is being considered, banking sources said. The four are local subsidiaries of Continental Illinois Holding Corp's <CIH.N> Belgian unit <Continental Bank SA/NV>, Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank NV <AMRO.AS>, <Canadian Commercial Bank> and <Union de Banques Arabes et Francaises>, they said. REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA'S LUCKY-GOLDSTAR TO MAKE CANON CAMERAS

<Goldstar Precision Co Ltd>, part of South Korea's <Lucky-Goldstar Group>, agreed with Japan's Canon Inc <CANN.T> to make cameras using Canon technology, a Goldstar spokesman told reporters. He told reporters Goldstar will invest 25 billion won over the next five years and would pay Canon three pct of total sales, which are targetted at eight billion won this year, 25 to 30 billion next year and 76 billion in 1991, as royalties. Most of Goldstar's output, due to start in July, will be sold in South Korea, he said. However, the Goldstar spokesman said, Canon has agreed in principle to buy an unspecified number of cameras for resale in Japan under its own name, he said, without providing further details. In Tokyo, a Canon spokesman said that under the agreement Canon would sell facilities, components and technology worth 1.5 billion yen to Goldstar in calendar 1987 and 3.5 billion in 1988, he said. He said Goldstar plans to make 35-mm single-lens reflex cameras and 35-mm compact cameras at an annual rate of 70,000 in 1987 and 200,000 in 1988. The camera market in South Korea is expected to expand rapidly ahead of the 1988 Olympic Games scheduled to be held there, the Canon spokesman said. South Korean camera demand rose to 700,000 in 1986 from 640,000 in 1985. Cameras made with foreign assistance accounted for 65 pct of cameras sold in South Korea, he said. Minolta Camera Co Ltd <MNLT.T>, <Asahi Optical Co Ltd> and Nippon Kogaku KK <GAKU.T> already assemble 35-mm cameras with South Korean partners. REUTER 
FUJI BANK ACCUSED OF MISUSE OF TAX FREE RESERVES

The Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau has imposed a penalty tax on <Fuji Bank Ltd> for alleged improper use of tax-free reserves, a bank spokeswoman told Reuters. She declined to reveal the bank's planned response but another bank official said it has not paid the penalty. The bank said in a brief statement it believes that its use of the tax-free reserves is legal. Financial institutions can set aside 0.003 pct of their risky loans as tax-free reserves. Fuji said a difference of understanding exists between the bank and the tax bureau regarding the use of tax-free reserves. It did not elaborate. Fuji Bank reported a 72.1 billion yen net profit in the 1985/86 year. Lending totaled 16,120 billion yen. REUTER 
NORTH KOREA TO RESURRECT GOLD MINE TO REPAY DEBT

Pyongyang and a group of Tokyo-based North Korean businessmen plan to resurrect a North Korean goldmine and boost annual output to almost one tonne within two years from 600 pounds at present, said Li Sangsu, a spokesman for <Unzan Mine Development Co>, the venture partner. Work will begin on April 3 and the company aims to increase output to 10 tonnes within a decade to pay off Pyongyang's 70 billion yen debt to 30 Japanese companies, Li added. "We expect this mine to be worth about 2,000 billion yen in gold deposits," he said. The mine, started in 1896 by a U.S. Company, is one of six or seven virtually untapped mines in the Unzan area, 94 miles north of Pyongyang, Li said. Li said modern equipment and advanced technology would increase yields. "Up to now, the mining was done with antiquated methods and basic equipment." The gold mine scheme is the latest in a series of moves by North Korea to clear its debts to Japanese creditors. Earlier this year, Pyongyang tried and failed to pay off part of its debt with several tonnes of fish. REUTER 
FUJI BANK ACCUSED OF MISUSE OF TAX FREE RESERVES

The Tokyo Regional Taxation Bureau has imposed a penalty tax on <Fuji Bank Ltd> for alleged improper use of tax-free reserves, a bank spokeswoman told Reuters. She declined to reveal the bank's planned response but another bank official said it has not paid the penalty. The bank said in a brief statement it believes that its use of the tax-free reserves is legal. Financial institutions can set aside 0.003 pct of their risky loans as tax-free reserves. Fuji said a difference of understanding exists between the bank and the tax bureau regarding the use of tax-free reserves. It did not elaborate. Fuji Bank reported a 72.1 billion yen net profit in the 1985/86 year. Lending totaled 16,120 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMIC PACKAGE AFTER BUDGET - MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japan plans to announce a package of economic measures immediately after the 1987/88 budget passes Parliament. The passage of the full budget is expected after May 20 as the government has decided to compile a 50-day stop-gap budget for the year starting April 1. An opposition boycott over a proposed sales tax has disrupted parliamentary business. Miyazawa told a press conference Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is unlikely to take the package to Washington. Nakasone hopes to meet President Reagan in late April or early May to prepare for the Venice economic summit in June. Asked if he planned to visit the U.S. To attend monetary conferences including International Monetary Fund meetings in early April, Miyazawa said he will make a decision carefully on the matter, taking into account parliament debate. The package is likely to include a record amount of public works spending in the first 1987/88 half, Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said the provisional budget will total about 8,800 billion yen and incorporate a little more than 1,800 billion for public works. Japan expects the stop-gap budget to help spur the economy, Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said the Government and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party will seek the passage of the bills related to the controversial sales tax without any revision. Japanese press reports had previously interpretated remarks by a top government official as indicating a revision of the tax but the official did not mean that, Miyazawa said. REUTER 
JAPAN PLANS MORE DECONTROL ON LARGE BANK DEPOSITS

The Finance Ministry plans to further ease restrictions on large-denomination bank deposits this year and is studying several deregulation plans, a ministry official said, without elaborating. Banking sources told Reuters the ministry plans to lower the minimum denomination of money market certificates (MMCs) to 10 mln yen from 20 mln, the amount slated to be applied from April 6. The amount is currently 30 mln yen. The ministry is also considering shortening the minimum period of free-interest large-lot time deposits to one month from the current three months, the sources said. The Ministry plans to expand the issue period of certificates of deposits (CDs) to one week to two years from the current one month to one year, the sources said. They said banks fear the ministry's plans may induce a shift of funds from bank to other financial instruments. One official of a major bank said the planned moves were unexpected as deregulation on large deposits was previously expected to have ended with the measures to start in April. On April 6, the Ministry is scheduled to lower the minimum time deposit amount to 100 mln yen from the current 300 mln and cut the maximum MMC deposit period to two years from one. REUTER 
JAPAN SLIGHTLY REDUCES SUGAR CONSUMPTION ESTIMATE

The Agriculture Ministry said it revised its April-June sugar consumption estimate down to 623,300 tonnes on a refined basis, from 637,800 estimated at the end of December. It said the estimate for domestically produced sugar supply for the same period was revised to 190,400 tonnes from the earlier estimate of 195,100 tonnes, while imports were revised to 402,000 tonnes from the earlier 435,800 tonnes. It did not revise its sugar consumption estimate of 2.53 mln tonnes for the 1986/87 sugar year ending September 30. The ministry said the estimate for the 1986/87 year's supply of domestically produced sugar was revised to 881,000 tonnes, from the earlier estimate of 863,000. The estimate for 1986/87 imports was revised to 1.642 mln tonnes, from an earlier 1.645 mln tonnes. REUTER 
FORMER GOLD FIRM EXECUTIVES ARRESTED IN JAPAN

The public prosecutors and police here arrested five former senior executives of a bankrupt gold deposit business group for defrauding about 450 clients of about 1.5 billion yen for gold bars which were never delivered, police said. The case involving the Toyota Shoji Company was highlighted when its 32-year-old Chairman Kazuo Nagano was stabbed to death here in public view in June, 1985. Television crews which had been waiting outside Nagano's home filmed two men smashing their way into the home and later emerging with a bloodstained bayonet. The company, established here in 1981, undertook to hold gold on deposit for investors. It grew into a nationwide business operation with 87 branch offices and 7,000 employees at its peak in early 1985. Toyota Shoji's business group collected an estimated 200 billion yen from about 30,000 clients, many of them pensioners and housewives, before the firm went bankrupt in July, 1985, according to lawyers. Of them, some 18,000 clients claimed they could get back neither gold or money, suffering an aggregate loss of 150 billion yen, local press reports said. Police said the five arrested on charge of fraud today included Hiroshi Ishikawa, 47, former Toyota Shoji president, and a sixth former executive was placed on a wanted list. They were suspected of having collaborated with the late Nagano in swindling about 1.5 billion yen from about 450 people in Osaka and nearby Kobe during a six month period just before the firm's bankruptcy, they said. Today's arrest came after narly two years of joint investigation by the public prosecutors and police, who had questioned about 3,000 of the firm's former employees, police sources said. REUTER 
JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON

Japan's long-term banks will soon cut their prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3 percentage point in response to falling secondary market yields on their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said. The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentage point above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued by the long-term banks every month. The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strong end-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yen interest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime rate has been in effect since February 28. REUTER 
JAPAN VEHICLE PRODUCTION FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Japan's vehicle output in February fell 0.4 pct from a year earlier to 1.03 mln units for the fifth consecutive monthly year-on-year drop, but February output was up 10 pct from a month earlier, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA) said. February car production totalled 651,253 units, up 0.4 pct from a year earlier, trucks 375,899, down 1.8 pct, and buses 4,230, up 10.3 pct, he said. Vehicle exports are expected to show a seven pct year-on-year drop in February when figures are announced on March 27, a JAMA spokesman said. The JAMA spokesman blamed slow sales to southeast Asia, the Mideast and other countries except the U.S. And Europe. February motorcycle output fell 32.9 pct from a year earlier to 224,312, the 13th straight year-on-year drop, but was up 4.2 pct from a month earlier, he added. Motorcycle exports are expected to show a 26 pct year-on-year fall in February, he said. REUTER 
NAKASONE DEFENDS SALES TAX AS CAMPAIGNING BEGINS

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone defended his tax reform plans from fierce opposition, even within his own party, as campaigning for local elections began. "Our plan to reform the nation's tax system is by no means wrong. Unless we reform the system now, Japan is bound to decay, perhaps within the next 10 years," Nakasone told supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). The April 12 and 26 elections will be the first nationwide vote since the LDP's general election victory last July. Opposition parties have shown rare unity in joining to fight a proposed five pct sales tax, one of the main planks in the tax reform package, and are now challenging the LDP-dominated local governments and assemblies. In Tokyo, incumbent Governor Shunichi Suzuki backed by the LDP and two centrist parties has said he cannot support the sales tax as it stands. A survey by the National Broadcasting Corporation just over three weeks ago showed 70 pct of those polled said they would take the tax, which Nakasone proposes to implement next January, into consideration when they vote. Takako Doi, Chairwoman of the Japan Socialist Party, said in a speech in central Tokyo where shop-owners are opposing the tax "The elections are a plebiscite against the sales tax. Your vote is a vote to force (Nakasone) to retract (it)." The LDP is putting up its own candidates only in Iwate and western Shimane but it is supporting independents jointly with other parties in other prefectures. A close aide to Nakasone, who asked not to be identified, said he sees the sales tax having little impact on the local elections since almost all candidates, irrespective of party affiliation, are opposing it in prefectural assembly polls. REUTER 
JAPANESE COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT FALLS IN JANUARY

Japanese compound feed output fell to 2.06 mln tonnes in January from 2.57 mln in December, against 2.04 mln a year earlier, Agriculture Ministry statistics show. January sales totalled 2.07 mln tonnes against 2.59 mln in December and 2.04 mln a year earlier, while end-month stocks were 233,003 tonnes against 230,764 and 241,567. Base mixes for the January compound feed output included corn, sorghum and soybean meal. Corn use totalled 993,156 tonnes, against 1.20 mln in December and 896,718 a year earlier, and its compounding ratio was 48.1 pct against 46.6 pct and 43.1 pct. Sorghum use totalled 339,013 tonnes in January against 459,067 in December and 412,743 a year earlier, and its compounding ratio was 16.4 pct against 17.8 pct and 19.8 pct, the ministry's figures shows. Soybean meal use amounted to 202,546 tonnes against 253,498 and 213,287 and its compounding ratio was 9.8 pct against 9.8 pct and 10.2 pct. REUTER 
JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND

Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy. Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved. Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not elaborate. Hata said protectionist pressures in the international economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Despite great potential, developing economies are still confronted by grave difficulties, particularly debt, he added. The basis for the talks is the GATT ministerial declaration last September in Punta del Este, Uruguay, and the subsequent trade negotiating plan agreed in Geneva. "It is essential that we first reaffirm here our commitment to implementing that plan as scheduled," Hata said. Hata added it is not constructive to speed up negotiations in some areas at the expense of others. In order to rebuild the free trade system, it is important for each participant to have domestic policies that will serve this end. As part of its contribution, Japan plans in April to fundamentally improve its generalised system of preferences for industrial and mining products to make Japan's domestic market more open to developing countries, he said. REUTER 
MARUBENI WINS 30 MLN DLR CHINESE CHICKEN CONTRACT

Marubeni Corp <MART.T> said it won a 30 mln dlr contract from China to set up a broiler raising and slaughtering plant in Tianjin under a countertrade accord in which payment will be made partly by output from the plant. The plant, which will be completed by end-1988, will have a capacity of five mln broilers a year, most of which will go to China's domestic market, a company spokesman said without giving further details. The spokesman said Marubeni plans to increase its countertrade with China by helping China set up farm product processing plants and improving its food distribution system. Marubeni will also help China develop export markets for farm products, he said. The company wants to increase its food trade with China to around 200 mln dlrs a year within a few years from 70 mln now, he added. REUTER 
MODERATE EARTHQUAKE HITS SOUTHWEST JAPAN

A moderate earthquake measuring 5.5 on the Richter scale shook southwestern Japan but caused no injuries or damage, police said. The tremor, recorded at 1358 local time (0458), had its epicentre about 50 km offshore from the city of Miyazaki on the western Japanese island of Kyushu, they said. It affected almost the same area as last Wednesday's strong earthquake which killed two people and injured at least three, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88

Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct rise in real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than the official 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said. The Research Institute on National Economy said in a report the economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter, partly because of an improvement in earnings performance and capital spending in manufacturing industries. The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the year starting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted the Bank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in the year. The institute forecast that Japan's exports will gradually rise in the year in volume terms as the dollar's fall in the past 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy. Japan's trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to 90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated 98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. REUTER 
TOSHIBA SETS UP HONG KONG CIRCUIT DESIGN CENTRE

Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> said it has set up a design centre for large integrated circuits (LSI) in Hong Kong. The centre, located at its wholly-owned Hong Kong subsidiary <Toshiba Electronics Asia Ltd>, will start operations to help create new demand for semi-customized LSI from April 1. Toshiba has nine LSI design centres in the U.S., Europe and Japan. REUETER 
JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON

Japan's long-term banks will soon cut their prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3 percentage point in response to falling secondary market yields on their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said. The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentage point above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued by the long-term banks every month. The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strong end-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yen interest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime rate has been in effect since February 28. REUTER 
NAKASONE DEFENDS SALES TAX AS CAMPAIGNING BEGINS

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone defended his tax reform plans from fierce opposition, even within his own party, as campaigning for local elections began. "Our plan to reform the nation's tax system is by no means wrong. Unless we reform the system now, Japan is bound to decay, perhaps within the next 10 years," Nakasone told supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). The April 12 and 26 elections will be the first nationwide vote since the LDP's general election victory last July. Opposition parties have shown rare unity in joining to fight a proposed five pct sales tax, one of the main planks in the tax reform package, and are now challenging the LDP-dominated local governments and assemblies. In Tokyo, incumbent Governor Shunichi Suzuki backed by the LDP and two centrist parties has said he cannot support the sales tax as it stands. A survey by the National Broadcasting Corporation just over three weeks ago showed 70 pct of those polled said they would take the tax, which Nakasone proposes to implement next January, into consideration when they vote. Takako Doi, Chairwoman of the Japan Socialist Party, said in a speech in central Tokyo where shop-owners are opposing the tax "The elections are a plebiscite against the sales tax. Your vote is a vote to force (Nakasone) to retract (it)." The LDP is putting up its own candidates only in Iwate and western Shimane but it is supporting independents jointly with other parties in other prefectures. A close aide to Nakasone, who asked not to be identified, said he sees the sales tax having little impact on the local elections since almost all candidates, irrespective of party affiliation, are opposing it in prefectural assembly polls. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING

The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollar buying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunch break, dealers said. They said the bank seemed more determined to support the dollar than it did this morning. Several dealers said the central bank intervened this afternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen. One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hour since the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Another said the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER 
SUPERCONDUCTOR RESEARCH MAY BOOST TOKYO STOCKS

Research into materials that conduct electricity with minimal resistance could lead to further gains on Tokyo's booming stock market, brokers said. They said the share prices of companies likely to benefit from the so-called 'superconductors' rose sharply last week after publication of articles about the research in the economic daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun. The companies were in the non-ferrous metal, electrical and mining sectors. But industry analysts said development problems remain and commercial application is still some years away. "The area clearly has significant applications but it won't be commercially viable for a few years," said Thomas Murtha, technology analyst with James Capel and Co. Industry analysts said the use of superconductors could bring sharp cuts in electricity costs if present problems can be overcome. Nikko Securities Co Ltd analyst Shinichi Nakayama said superconductors could have applications in computer circuitry, electricity generation and storage, and scientific research. The superconductors are made of a blend of metals fused in a heat-firing process similar to that used in ceramics. Nakayama said Kawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T> predicted in an in-house study that by 1990 the worldwide market would be worth 150 billion yen for superconductors used in computers, 50 billion for those used in electricity generators and 150 billion for those used in electricity storage. The study said that by 1995 there would be trains capable of 500 km an hour, hovering on a magnetic field and powered mainly by superconductors. One hundred billion yen worth of superconducting material would be needed for such a train. The Kawasaki study also said superconductors would be used in nuclear fusion physics, but not until the year 2000. Industry analysts said superconductors have no commercial applications at present. In laboratory tests the conductor must be cooled by expensive liquid helium or hydrogen before minimum electrical resistance is achieved, though liquid nitrogen, which is much less expensive, has recently also been used successfully, they said. Despite this, investors on Tokyo's stock market have boosted shares of firms related to superconducting materials. From the close of trading on March 17 until yesterday's close, Mitsubishi Mining and Cement Co Ltd's <MIMI.T> share price rose 140 yen to 485 yen. In the same period Mitsubishi Metal Corp <MITM.T>, rose 95 to 745 yen, Sumitomo Metal Mining Co Ltd <TOMM.T> rose 200 to 1440 yen, and Kawasaki Steel rose 15 to 260. Furukawa Electric Co Ltd shares <URUT.T> jumped 104 yen to 689 yen, and Fuji Electric Co Ltd <FUJE.T> rose 141 to 619. Brokers said shares of suppliers of scientific instruments needed to conduct the superconductor research also rose. Industry analysts said the most favoured superconductor, made from a blend of yttrium, barium and copper, is currently undergoing laboratory tests under a scheme coordinated by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI). REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 
SONY SETTING UP SECOND AUDIO PLANT IN MALAYSIA

Sony Corp <SNE.T> said it will set up a second wholly-owned subsidiary in Malaysia to make headphones, car stereos, radios and radiocassettes from early 1988. <Sony Electronics (M) Sdn Bhd> in Penang will have initial capital of about 2.5 billion yen, and provide 1,000 jobs. Sales worth 10 billion yen are targetted for the year from April 1, 1988, mainly to the U.S. And Europe. Sony's wholly-owned <Toyo Audio (M) Sdn Bhd> in Penang has made audio products for export to the U.S. And Europe since 1984. Toyo sales were four billion yen in the year to October 31, 1986. REUTER 
SUZUKI MOTOR PLANS HUNGARIAN JOINT CAR VENTURE

Suzuki Motor Co Ltd <SZMT.T> is negotiating a joint venture with Hungary to assemble compact cars there following a request from its government, the first entry by a Japanese car maker into a Communist country, a Suzuki spokesman said. The company, in which General Motors Corp <GM.N> has a 4.9 pct stake, has to set up such projects to avoid cutting component production in Japan. Existing overseas vehicle projects are increasing local content and so using fewer Japanese parts, the spokesman said. Its Indian joint venture <Maruti Udyog Ltd>, MUL, 26 pct owned by Suzuki, will reduce component imports from Japan as it increases local content to 60 pct from the present 40 pct in 1987, the spokesman said. The yen's continued rise against the dollar and Japan's self-imposed restrictions on exports to the U.S. And Europe were also to blame for cuts in car component manufacture in Japan, he said. REUTER 
JAPANESE CAPITAL SPENDING GROWTH EXPECTED TO SLOW

Japanese private sector investment in plant and equipment is expected to grow a real 0.9 pct in 1987, after an estimated 5.5 pct rise last year, the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd said. It said its survey of 1,169 companies at the end of February showed that manufacturing industry investment will decline eight pct this year, while non-manufacturing will increase 5.7 pct. It did not provide figures for 1986. The bank partly blamed the expected deline in manufacturing investment on the uncertain outlook for demand in those industries. The Long-Term Credit Bank also said that steelmaking and shipbuilding companies are putting a squeeze on maintenance and repair costs for their facilities and equipment. In non-manufacturing industry, growth in investment is expected to be particularly marked in the wholesale and retail store area, 12.4 pct, as new department stores and supermarkets are built and old ones are remodelled. The Bank though expressed concern at a slowing of corporate investment that would help restructure the Japanese economy and urged government deregulation and other action to offset this. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING

The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollar buying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunch break, dealers said. They said the bank seemed more determined to support the dollar than it did this morning. Several dealers said the central bank intervened this afternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen. One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hour since the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Another said the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 
DOUBTS ABOUT ACCORD SEEN WEAKENING DOLLAR FURTHER

The dollar is expected to decline further in coming days as scepticism mounts about the effectiveness of last month's Paris accord to stabilise currency exchange rates, senior foreign exchange dealers said. Following its fall today to a record 148.40 yen, dealers said they expect the dollar to establish a new trading range of 147 to 150 yen before the market again tries to push it down. Behind the latest dollar fall lies the belief that last month's accord was no longer enough to stop operators pushing the dollar down, the dealers said. "The recent remark by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the Paris accord did not set any target ranges for major currencies has cast a shadow on the agreement," said Koji Kidokoro, general manager of Mitsui Bank Ltd's treasury division. He said the market interpreted this as indicating the U.S. Would favour a weaker dollar and it had little intention of intervening to support the currency. "This eliminated the widespread market caution against possible joint central bank intervention," Kidokoro said. Dealers said the dollar had gathered renewed downward momentum and that Bank of Japan intervention alone could hardly contain a further slide in the currency. They said the central bank bought between one to 1.5 billion dlrs today, including direct purchases through brokers, and yesterday it might have bought a small amount of dollars through the U.S. Central bank in New York. Most dealers said they doubted the U.S. Federal Reserve would intervene on its own account to support the dollar, but some said this might occur if the dollar fell much below 148 yen. "If the dollar drops to that low level, it could reduce the flow of foreign capital into U.S. Securities, which the Americans don't want," said Haruya Uehara, chief money market manager of Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp. He said the dollar may return to around 152 yen next month when corporations reduce their dollar sales after they close their books for the 1986/87 business year ending on March 31. But dealers said the longer-term outlook for the dollar remained bearish. This was due to the lacklustre performance of the U.S. Economy, the continuing U.S. Trade deficit and Japanese delays in announcing an economic stimulation package. "The Americans are getting frustrated at Japan's inertia in stimulating its economy," said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd's international treasury division. In the Paris currency accord Japan promised a package of economic measures, after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed, to boost domestic demand, increase imports, and thus reduce its trade surplus. The package was expected in April, but debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of parliamentary business over the proposed introduction of a sales tax. In the circumstances the government had only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, Dai-Ichi Kangyo's Tanaka said. Dealers said if steps are not taken to stimulate the Japanese economy protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress would grow and put more downward pressure on the dollar. REUTER 
MAJOR NATIONS MUST ACT ON CURRENCIES - MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the time has come for major industrialised nations to take action on exchange rates in line with their agreement last month in Paris. In Paris, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to coooperate to hold currency rates around their then current levels. Miyazawa would not say what specific measures major nations would take, but told reporters the measures had been discussed in Paris. The dollar fell to a record low against the yen this morning, piercing the 150 yen barrier. Asked if major nations were now negotiating on what measures to take, Miyazawa said they were not as measures had already been agreed in Paris. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMY MAY START BOTTOMING OUT SOON -AGENCY

Japan's economy remains sluggish but is beginning to show signs it may bottom out soon, the Economic Planning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to Cabinet ministers. But a bottoming out of the economy depends largely on the yen's exchange rate trend in the immediate future, Agency officials said. The officials told reporters industrial production, down 0.5 pct in January from December, is likely to turn positive in February and to rise thereafter, raising hopes for a brighter economic outlook. The Agency predicted industrial production will grow 2.5 pct in the current January/March quarter after falling 0.7 pct in the previous quarter. A rise of this size would be the largest since the fourth quarter of 1984 when industrial output rose 2.7 pct, the officials said. They also said an expected upturn in exports would be a mixed blessing as it would contribute to economic growth but would increase the chance of trade friction. Japanese exports contracted five pct in February from January but are likely to grow from March if the yen stabilizes around current levels, the officials said. They predicted exports will increase by 2.3 pct in the January/March quarter from the October/December quarter. "But the problem is imports are not expanding," said one official. Imports fell by 9.4 pct in February from January. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. Reuter 
EARTHQUAKE STRIKES WESTERN JAPANESE COAST

A strong earthquake registering a preliminary reading of 6.5 on the Richter scale was felt on the coast northwest of Tokyo today, the Central Meteorological Agency said. There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries but the agency issued a seismic wave warning on the coast between Niigata Prefecture, northwest of Tokyo, and Noto Peninsula, to the west. The epicentre of the tremor was located in the Sea of Japan far off Niigata, it said. The tremor was felt as far away as Yokohama, south of Tokyo, and Hamamatsu on the Pacific coast. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln, dealers said. One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrs through brokers and the rest through banks. The buying began when the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive the U.S. Currency up to around 150, he said. Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to push the dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around that level quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen, dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S 1986/87 SUGAR CANE OUTPUT SEEN FALLING

An Agriculture Ministry survey has estimated the nation's 1986/87 crop sugar cane output at 2.14 mln tonnes, down from 2.62 mln a year earlier. Ministry officials said the decline was due to bad weather and a reduction in the land under sugar cane this season, which totals 34,800 hectares, down from 35,700 in 1985/86, they said. Harvesting stretches from December 1986 to April 1987 Japan's final output will be announced at the beginning of June, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN INTERVENING TO KEEP DOLLAR UP, BROKERS

The Bank of Japan is continuing to intervene in the Tokyo market, buying small amounts of dollars to hold the unit above 149 yen, brokers said. They said the Bank is coming in when the dollar is around 149.05/10 yen, the same levels as New York's close yesterday and the midday close in Tokyo today. Dealers said the Bank of Japan is intervening in the market through both banks and brokers this afternoon. The central bank is checking selling orders through banks and placing matching buy orders, they said. The central bank started to intervene shortly after the market opened here in the afternoon, the dealers said. REUTER 
EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 
MATSUSHITA TO ISSUE 200 BILLION YEN CONVERTIBLE

Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T> said it will issue a 200 billion yen unsecured convertible bond in the domestic capital market through public placement with Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd, Nomura Securities Co Ltd, Nikko Securities Co Ltd, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd and National Securities Co Ltd as underwriters. Coupon and conversion price for the par-priced bond maturing on September 30, 1996, will be set before payment on May 2. This issue equals in size a record one by Toyota Motor Corp last December. Matsushita's shares closed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange at 1,640 yen, down 50 from yesterday. REUTER 
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE-SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank has no intention of cutting its discount rate again as a way of preventing the yen's rise. He told a press conference that the growth of Japanese money supply remains high. The bank will have to watch closely various developments resulting from its already eased monetary stance, such as the sharp rise in real estate and stock prices, he said. Although the yen's rise will have a greater deflationary impact on the economy, the economy is not likely to slow down much further, Sumita said. "I don't think we should change our economic outlook at the moment," Sumita said. Sumita has said in the past that he expects the economy to show a gradual upturn in the second half of the year. The governor said the six major industrial nations are expected to review last month's pact on currency stability when they meet next in April. Dealers said they expect the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. Amd West Germany - to meet just before the IMF/World Bank interim committee meeting in Washington starting on April 9. REUTER 
FOREIGN BROKERS GET MORE ACCESS TO JAPANESE BONDS

The Finance Ministry has accepted a decision by the securities industry to expand the share of foreign brokers in the 10-year bond underwriting syndicate to 5.73 pct from 1.19 pct now, a ministry spokesman said. Earlier this month, the ministry approved a plan to expand the securities industry's share in the syndicate to 26.2 pct from 26 pct from April to allow six foreign securities firms to participate, he said. The banks' share in the syndicate will be cut to 73.8 pct from 74 pct from April. Each of the original 17 foreign brokers had a 0.07 pct share, but the securities industry said in a report accepted by the ministry that it decided to raise the share of some foreign firms due to their commitment to the Japanese market. Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd will have one pct, while S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd, Goldman, Sachs International Corp, Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd, First Boston Corp, Merrill Lynch Securities Co and Morgan Stanley and Co Inc will each have 0.5 pct. Vickers da Costa Ltd and Smith Barney, Harris Upham International Inc will each have 0.3 pct. Kleinwort, Benson Ltd, Kidder, Peabody and Co Ltd, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc, Deutsche Bank AG and W.I. Carr, Sons and Co each get 0.1 pct. Bache Securities (Japan) Ltd, Hoare Govett (Far East) Ltd and J. Henry Schroeder Bank and Trust Co and the six new syndicate members -- E.F. Hutton International Inc, Shearson Lehman Brothers Asia Inc, Dresdner Bank AG, Swiss Bank Corp International Asia Inc, Sogen Security Corp and Swiss Union Philips and Drew Ltd -- will each have a 0.07 pct share in the securities industry. REUTER 
TWO JAPANESE STEELMAKERS TO CUT CAPITAL SPENDING

Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.TOK> said it will cut its capital spending by 36.4 pct to 105 billion yen in the year starting April 1 from a year earlier due to the postponement of furnace improvements. <Nisshin Steel Co Ltd> said it will spend 10.7 billion yen in 1987/88 for rationalisation and facility improvements, down from 32.1 billion a year earlier, after completion of large construction projects in 1986/87. But capital spending by Nippon Kokan K.K. <NKKT.TOK> to improve and increase its production facilities will rise to 94.90 billion yen from 64 billion, the company said. REUTER 
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DOLLAR, NIKKEIREN SAYS

The yen could rise to 140 yen to the dollar, a leading Japanese businessman said. Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), told reporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar). The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economy is not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)." "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S. Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as the American situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," he said. To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen, Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means, including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said. He rejected recent calls from some government quarters for wage increases this year as a means of raising private consumption and thus boosting domestic demand. "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said. He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressing the outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in addition to hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic market manufacturers through cheap imports. Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsuki said. Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and a downturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect service industries, he said. It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fully employ those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, he said. Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall in the business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possible recession in the Japanese economy, he said. Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyond levels experienced in 1986. The government's Economic Planning Agency said last week the economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performance since 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oil price crisis. In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost the economy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of land and reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along with steps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses and exporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, trading house officials said. The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderate their foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise in the yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It made the request by telephone. A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey of foreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But he said it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling. The trading house officials said MITI had asked them to undertake foreign exchange transactions with due consideration to the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements would have on the economy. The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys when exchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was made when the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 on January 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday. He said the survey showed currency transactions by trade houses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 300 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 300 billion yen of government financing bills tomorrow under a 29-day repurchase accord maturing April 24 to soak up a projected money market surplus, market sources said. The surplus is estimated at 350 billion yen, due mainly to excess bank holdings of yen funds after heavy dollar purchases in the foreign exchange market yesterday, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sales to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9495 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate for one-month commercial bills and the 4.58/42 pct yield on one-month certificates of deposit today. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 1,900 billion yen, money traders said. REUTER 
FOREIGN BROKERS GET MORE ACCESS TO JAPANESE BONDS

The Finance Ministry has accepted a decision by the securities industry to expand the share of foreign brokers in the 10-year bond underwriting syndicate to 5.73 pct from 1.19 pct now, a ministry spokesman said. Earlier this month, the ministry approved a plan to expand the securities industry's share in the syndicate to 26.2 pct from 26 pct from April to allow six foreign securities firms to participate, he said. The banks' share in the syndicate will be cut to 73.8 pct from 74 pct from April. Each of the original 17 foreign brokers had a 0.07 pct share, but the securities industry said in a report accepted by the ministry that it decided to raise the share of some foreign firms due to their commitment to the Japanese market. Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd will have one pct, while S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd, Goldman, Sachs International Corp, Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd, First Boston Corp, Merrill Lynch Securities Co and Morgan Stanley and Co Inc will each have 0.5 pct. Vickers da Costa Ltd and Smith Barney, Harris Upham International Inc will each have 0.3 pct. Kleinwort, Benson Ltd, Kidder, Peabody and Co Ltd, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc, Deutsche Bank AG and W.I. Carr, Sons and Co each get 0.1 pct. Bache Securities (Japan) Ltd, Hoare Govett (Far East) Ltd and J. Henry Schroeder Bank and Trust Co and the six new syndicate members -- E.F. Hutton International Inc, Shearson Lehman Brothers Asia Inc, Dresdner Bank AG, Swiss Bank Corp International Asia Inc, Sogen Security Corp and Swiss Union Philips and Drew Ltd -- will each have a 0.07 pct share in the securities industry. REUTER 
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DLR, NIKKEIREN SAYS

The yen could rise to 140 yen to the dollar, a leading Japanese businessman said. Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), told reporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar). The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economy is not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)." "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S. Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as the American situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," he said. To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen, Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means, including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said. He rejected recent calls from some government quarters for wage increases this year as a means of raising private consumption and thus boosting domestic demand. "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said. He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressing the outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in addition to hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic market manufacturers through cheap imports. Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsuki said. Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and a downturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect service industries, he said. It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fully employ those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, he said. Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall in the business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possible recession in the Japanese economy, he said. Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyond levels experienced in 1986. The government's Economic Planning Agency said last week the economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performance since 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oil price crisis. In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost the economy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of land and reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along with steps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln, dealers said. One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrs through brokers and the rest through banks. The buying began when the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive the U.S. Currency up to around 150, he said. Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to push the dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around that level quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen, dealers said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 300 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 300 billion yen of government financing bills tomorrow under a 29-day repurchase accord maturing April 24 to soak up a projected money market surplus, market sources said. The surplus is estimated at 350 billion yen, due mainly to excess bank holdings of yen funds after heavy dollar purchases in the foreign exchange market yesterday, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sales to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9495 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate for one-month commercial bills and the 4.58/42 pct yield on one-month certificates of deposit today. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 1,900 billion yen, money traders said. REUTER 
EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses and exporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, trading house officials said. The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderate their foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise in the yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It made the request by telephone. A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey of foreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But he said it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling. The trading house officials said MITI had asked them to undertake foreign exchange transactions with due consideration to the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements would have on the economy. The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys when exchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was made when the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 on January 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday. He said the survey showed currency transactions by trade houses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER 
MATSUSHITA TO ISSUE 200 BILLION YEN CONVERTIBLE

Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T> said it will issue a 200 billion yen unsecured convertible bond in the domestic capital market through public placement with Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd, Nomura Securities Co Ltd, Nikko Securities Co Ltd, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd and National Securities Co Ltd as underwriters. Coupon and conversion price for the par-priced bond maturing on September 30, 1996, will be set before payment on May 2. This issue equals in size a record one by Toyota Motor Corp last December. Matsushita's shares closed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange at 1,640 yen, down 50 from yesterday. REUTER 
FURTHER YEN RISE WOULD HURT JAPAN ECONOMY, SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said a further yen rise would have adverse effects on the Japanese economy. He told Japanese business leaders the Bank of Japan will continue to take adequate measures, including market intervention, to stabilize exchange rates if necessary, in close cooperation with other major industrialized nations. He said the current instability of exchange rates will not last. Six major nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - agreed in Paris last month to act together to hold currencies stable. Sumita said the Bank of Japan will continue to pursue adequate and flexible monetary policies while watching economic and financial developments in and outside Japan. He said the decision to cut the discount rate on February 20 was a hard choice for the Bank because monetary conditions had already been sufficiently eased. To prevent a resurgence of inflation, the Bank will take a very cautious stance regarding developments stemming from easy credit conditions, he said. He said the latest discount rate cut to 2.5 pct should stabilize exchange rates and expand domestic demand. Commenting on the dollar's fall below 150 yen, Sumita reiterated he cannot find any specific reason for the currency's weakness. The market undertook speculative dollar selling by reacting to overseas comments by monetary authorities and trade tension, he said. Sumita repeated that the Japanese economy may gradually recover in the latter half of the 1987/88 fiscal year ending April 1, 1988, provided exchange rates stabilize. REUTER 
JAPAN SEEN CUTTING APRIL BOND COUPON FROM FIVE PCT

The underwriting syndicate expects the Finance Ministry to propose a 0.2 to 0.3 percentage point cut in the coupon of the 10-year government bond to be issued in April from the five pct March issue, underwriting sources said. The expected proposal is likely to await passage of a provisional budget for 1987/88 starting April 1 by the Lower House of Parliament on March 30, the sources said. Issue volume is likely to be 1,200 to 1,400 billion yen against 475 billion in March, they said. Projected issue price is around par against 99.50 for the March bond, they said. REUTER 
TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said it is in Japan's national interest to make greater efforts to reduce its trade surplus. He told business executives the most important issues for the world economy are the correction of international trade imbalances and a solution to the world debt problem. To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make medium- and long-term efforts to alter economic structures which have expanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economic growth and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' export markets are needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS MAJOR NATIONS ACTING ON PARIS ACCORD

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said major nations are taking action to stabilise exchange rates in line with their agreement in Paris last month, government sources said. Miyazawa told an Upper House session the six nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany -- are abiding by the Paris accord. The six agreed to cooperate to stabilise exchange rates at around current levels. Miyazawa said he wishes to attend a meeting of seven major nations (G-7) expected just before the IMF/World Bank Interim Committee meeting in Washington starting on April 9. The sources quoted Miyazawa as saying Japan is trying to prevent a further rise of the yen. Japan is taking the matter seriously, he added. Asked if the six nations had agreed to stabilise the dollar at about 153 yen, the rate prevailing at the time of the Paris talks, Miyazawa declined to give specific figures and said any mention of specific rates would create an "unexpected situation." REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - TOKYO EARTHQUAKE AFTERSHOCKS

The possibility that a major earthquake will strike Tokyo, causing corporate and financial ruin, haunts the worst nightmares of many insurers and bankers polled by Reuters. The Japanese capital is shaken by hundreds of small tremors every year, but last week's biq quake in western Japan, which measured 6.9 on the open-ended Richter scale, was a timely reminder that the big one could come at any time. Another on Tuesday registering a preliminary 6.5 on the scale struck the Sea of Japan coast northwest of Tokyo. A widely accepted theory by the late seismologist Kawasumi Hiroshi states that major quakes occur in cycles averaging 69 years. Tokyo was last laid flat in 1923 by a tremor reading 7.8, raising the spectre of another within five years. Seismic experts at Shizuoka, one of three areas near Tokyo considered quake-prone, say they expect a major earthquake within the next few years. Added to such fears is the fact that no developed nation has suffered a major quake since the far-reaching changes in the last two decades which have bound the global economy into a complex, fragile, interdependent financial network. "We are reaching a dangerous time. Insurance companies are starting to worry about how to cover the large losses," said Hatsuho Narita, a manager at the British Insurance Group. "It's a theme that has worried a lot of people. It's difficult to put a figure on it, but the impact on all world markets would be considerable," Brian Waterhouse, a banking expert at brokerage James Capel in Tokyo, told Reuters. What would happen? Consider that Tokyo and its six surrounding prefectures account for up to 40 pct of Japanese gross national product, or some six pct of world GNP. Some economists believe that in the immediate aftermath of a Tokyo quake, the yen would rise against sterling because of the large amount of reinsurance which would fall due in London. But it would plunge against other currencies. This would worsen the dramatic loss of value in land and assets in the Tokyo area. Banks would be left holding hundreds of billions of dollars in worthless mortgages and loans. Bankers estimate that 50 to 70 pct of city and regional banks' loan exposure is to smaller business, which would most likely lose all in a quake. Up to nine pct of their exposure is in housing and consumer loans, they said. Many smaller banks and some larger ones would go to the wall, bankers polled by Reuters said. The government, aware that insurance claims would be huge, has set a payout ceiling of 10 mln yen per private house. In Tokyo, 100 mln yen buys only a very modest residence. In addition, the insurance industry has formed the Japan Earthquake Reinsurance Co to cover housing to a total of 10 billion dlrs, 80 pct of it government-guaranteed. However, insurers said the industrial sector, which has no government backing, is a more dangerous risk. Japanese insurers said they are finding it increasingly difficult to find reinsurance abroad. "Overseas firms are now very alert to earthquake insurance risks," said Tahashi Kumakiri, Foreign Department head at the Japan Non-life Insurance Association. Due to limited world insurance capacity, the Finance Ministry recommends a coverage limit of 15 to 30 pct of Japanese firms' total insurable value. Even so, one insurer believes that local firms reinsure up to 80 pct of their quake cover overseas, most of it through Lloyds of London. Some of this reinsurance is then reinsured again, compounding the risks should the money suddenly be called in. Foreign entities in Japan are allowed 100 pct quake cover but foreign insurers now set a limit of 60 pct. Industrial cover is confidential but official figures show that in fiscal 1985/86 ended March 31, Japan did about half a billion dlrs of overseas reinsurance business in fire cover, most of which is quake-related. Bankers said the destruction of underlying assets and repatriation of huge amounts of Japanese overseas investment would seriously affect overseas stock and bond markets. Japanese institutions buy a net 10 billion dlrs or so of foreign bonds a month, much of it U.S. Treasuries, and are purchasing more and more U.S. And European stocks. The value of foreign holdings of Japanese securities would nosedive. Japan would need huge amounts of money over a long period to rebuild, which would block out developing nation creditors from existing capital resources, the bankers said. Loss of central computers would mean billions in lost transactions, bankers noted. Oil traders said crude prices would plummet as imports fell by up to half from some three mln barrels per day now. REUTER 
KAWASAKI TO INCREASE MOTORCYCLE OUTPUT

Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd <KAWH.T> will increase output of motorcycles, dune buggies and jet skis to 380,000 units in the year starting April 1 from 303,000 a year earlier, a company spokesman said. Exports in 1987/88 are forecast to jump to 335,000 from 271,000 a year earlier, while domestic sales will rise to around 45,000 from 32,000, he told Reuters. Of these, exports to the U.S. Will rise to 150,000 from 120,000 a year earlier. The company also plans to lift motorcycle production at its wholly owned U.S. Subsidiary <Kawasaki Motor Manufacturing Corp> to 1985/86 levels of 75,000 from 67,000 in 1986/87. REUTER 
JAPANESE SCIENTISTS DEVELOP AIDS DETECTION MATERIAL

Japanese scientists say they have developed a material which can help detect the killer disease Aquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Leading Japanese AIDS scientist professor Naoki Yamamoto told Reuters he and other scientists working at Yamaguchi University in southern Japan have been testing the material's ability to filter the AIDS virus from blood since last April and produced successful results. He said the material, a tube made from a cellulose membrane, could only be used to diagnose AIDS sufferers and not cure them. The share price of Asahi Chemical Company<ASAT.T>, which plans to market the product in about a year's time, rose sharply but ended the day only 27 yen higher at 905 yen a share. The cellulose tubes, which Asahi will market under the name Bemberg Microporous Membrane (BMM), can also separate the virus of the kidney ailment hepatitis and may be applied to diagnosing polio sufferers, vice-president of Asahi Chemical, R. Yumikura said. Ashai will supply BMM for research purposes soon. Shares of companies even remotely related to the fight against AIDS have risen on the Tokyo stock market since the first Japanese woman died of the disease in Kobe in January. REUTER 
TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said it is in Japan's national interest to make greater efforts to reduce its trade surplus. He told business executives the most important issues for the world economy are the correction of international trade imbalances and a solution to the world debt problem. To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make medium- and long-term efforts to alter economic structures which have expanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economic growth and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' export markets are needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS SMALL QUANTITY DOLLARS -DEALERS

The Bank of Japan was thought to have bought a small amount of dollars at around 149.30/40 yen, dealers said. The dollar fluctuated marginally after the small-scale intervention, believed to total several tens of mlns of dlrs, they said. Large-scale buying by foreign banks or by a life insurance company earlier pushed the dollar upwards, they said. Trading was not very active and dealers were watching for further central bank intervention to smooth out any sharp movements, but underlying dollar sentiment is still bearish. REUTER 
WORLD BANK CHIEF CONCERNED ABOUT BRAZIL ECONOMY

World Bank president Barber Conable said he was concerned about the state of Brazil's economy and urged the country to come up with a plan soon to put its economic house in order. "I am very concerned about the Brazilian economy," he told reporters after a news conference in Tokyo. He said Brazil had caught the attention of the world with its decision last month to stop paying interest on its loans from commercial banks but warned it not to sqaunder the time it gained by failing to come up with a new economic program. Brazil's decision jolted the world's financial community as the country is 108 billion dlrs in debt, including some 68 billion owed to commercial banks. Brazilian Finance Ministry sources said in Brasilia yesterday that the country was preparing a new economic strategy designed to ensure domestic economic growth. Despite mounting domestic and overseas pressure, Brazil has said repeatedly that it will not go to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for help in drawing up a new plan for fear that will only throw its economy into recession. Conable said the country may be able to get away with not going to the IMF for help, but will need an IMF-type economic program if it wants to regain the confidence of lenders. Outsiders like the World Bank are reluctant to suggest possible solutions to Brazil's economic problems because of the delicate political situation there, he added. While the World Bank has a role to play in helping Brazil, it canot replace the IMF as an overseer of the economy, Conable said. He added that the Fund can be very flexible in its dealings with developing countries, adjusting its approach to the political realities. Brazil still seems willing to talk to the Fund under the annual discussions that all IMF members undertake, Conable said, adding that this could partially solve the current stalemate. During his news conference, Conable said the World Bank backed U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's Third World debt initiative, which calls for stepped up lending to heavily indebted Third World countries adopting economic policies. "The World Bank believes the Baker initiative is the best approach," he said. "Debt forgiveness is difficult to design in any fair way and also will tend to discourage further investment and development." He cited the recent multi-billion dollar debt package for Mexico, the Third World's most indebted country after Brazil. "Will it work?" he asked. "We don't know...But we think it more likely to work than any of the alternatives suggested." Conable, who is here to meet government and business leaders, expressed confidence that Japan will make increasing use of its huge trade surplus to help developing countries. "We are quite confident Japan will make an increasing investment in development because of their willingness to support institutions like ours in increasing ways with each passing year," he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 400 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell today 400 billion yen of government financing bills in a 24-day repurchase agreement due April 20 to soak up a projected money market surplus, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.9505 pct against the 3.9375 pct discount rate on one-month commercial bills and the 4.50/37 pct yield on one-month certificates of deposit today. Today's surplus is seen at 480 billion yen, mainly excess bank holdings due to big Bank of Japan dollar purchases on March 25. Outstanding bills will total some 2,300 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY

Japan's consumer price index (base 1985) was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January. The February index was down one pct from a year earlier for the third consecutive year-on-year drop. In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, the first drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September 1958. In February petrol prices increased but winter clothing prices stayed low and vegetable prices fell. The February year on year fall was due to lower vegetable, fuel oil, petrol, electricity and gas prices, and despite higher housing, education, footwear and clothing costs. The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area (base 1985) in mid-March rose 0.4 pct from a month earlier to 100.6, reflecting higher vegetable prices. The index fell 0.3 pct year on year, the third consecutive yearly drop, reflecting lower food and utility costs. REUTER 
NTT CONSIDERING BUYING CRAY SUPERCOMPUTER

<Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Co> (NTT) is considering buying a Cray II supercomputer worth some three billion yen from Cray Research Inc <CYR>, and a decision is expected in early April, an NTT official said. He told Reuters NTT was considering the Cray machine because of its superior operational speed and memory capacity, and not because of any pressure to buy foreign hardware. Industry sources said foreign frustration was growing over lack of access to Japan's semiconductor and telecommunications markets, and Washington had criticised Japanese government agencies for not buying U.S. Supercomputers. REUTER 
JAPAN LIKELY TO ALLOW FOREIGN FUTURES MARKET USE

The finance ministry appears ready to allow Japanese financial institutions to use overseas financial futures markets, a ministry official said. He declined to say when, but banking sources expect approval as early as April. Banks, securities houses and insurance companies are expected to become eligible to deal in deposit, interest rate, bond and stock index futures. Ministry officials said they are wary of giving permission to individuals or corporations because of their relative inexperience. Broking for Japanese residents by financial institutions would be prohibited as securities exchange laws bar banks from doing this, the banking sources said. Overseas subsidiaries and branches of Japanese banks and securities houses have already been allowed to use the overseas futures markets on their own accounts. The Finance Ministry Ordinance based on Foreign Exchange Administration Law will have to be revised to allow local institutions to join the overseas markets, a ministry official said. REUTER 
JAPAN DRAFT ECONOMIC PACKAGE DUE IN EARLY APRIL

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has told his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to come up with a draft economic package in early April in time for his visit to Washington starting on April 29, government officials said. Nakasone also instructed the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA) to work closer with the LDP to work out a full-fledged economic plan to boost domestic demand as pledged at last month's Paris currency stability accord by six industrial countries, the officials told Reuters. The date for the government to announce its package, based on the LDP's suggested measures, is not yet known but it may be before the fiscal 1987 budget passes the Parliament around late May, the officials said. The government has said in the past the package should come after the passage of the budget. But calls have grown at home and abroad for the government to announce it earlier as budget debates have been stalled by an opposition boycott of parliamentary business in protest at a planned five pct sales tax. EPA chief Tetsuo Kondo told a press conference he sees a need to work on the economic plan early although the government's stance on the date for the plan remains the same, an EPA spokesman said. Projected measures include promoting house construction, infrastructure and urban development, he quoted Kondo as saying. Under last month's Paris currency agreement, Japan promised to work out a comprehensive economic plan to stimulate domestic demand, increase imports and so help reduce its huge trade surplus. The government announced today Nakasone will visit Washington on April 29 for a week to discuss bilateral issues, including the trade imbalance, with President Reagan and other officials. REUTER 
JAPAN TO INTRODUCE YEN COMMERCIAL PAPER IN OCTOBER

The Finance Ministry is expected to introduce yen commercial paper, CP, from October 1 in response to growing calls from corporations, ministry sources said. Around 200 corporations satisfy financial standards set by securities houses for non-collateral straight bond issues, including electric power companies, <Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp> and Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd, securities managers said. Most eligible firms would have to set up special reserves for CP issues called backup lines, or be guaranteed by financial institutions to protect investors, they said. The legal status of yen CP would be the same as yen commercial bills and it would be placed by an intermediary bank or securities house, securities managers said. The minimum issue unit will be 100 mln yen, and maturities will be from 30 days and six months, they said. Securities houses, banks, insurance companies and consumer credit companies are barred from CP issues, they said. Only banks may be commissioned to handle the clerical business of principle payments, they added. REUTER 
NEC CORP TARGETS HOME ELECTRONICS BUSINESS

The president of Japan's biggest high technology firm, NEC Corp <NIPN.T>, is anything but worried, despite growing anti-Japanese protectionism, a soaring yen, and a stagnant world electronics market. "The company's structure was developed by looking ahead," Tadahiro Sekimoto told Reuters in an interview. "We assumed the era of a strong yen, trade friction and globalisation would arrive, and we moved ahead on that basis. There's no need to change our strategy now." However, the world's largest manufacturer of microchips, the tiny silicon wafers which are the brains of most high technology products, knows it must keep looking ahead if it is to survive. Hoping to build on existing strengths, NEC is now turning its focus on home electronics, an area of past weakness, Sekimoto said. NEC wants to follow its corporate slogan "C and C" (Computers and Communications) to create high level home electronics that go beyond mere televisions and video tape recorders, Sekimoto said. Home electronics accounted for only eight pct of NEC's total 2,334.67 billion yen sales on a consolidated basis in the year ended March 31, 1986. Industry analysts say NEC is wise to target what will be a major growth market in the future, but some warn the company faces some stiff competition. "This is where the market is going to be for a long time -- in products that combine personal computers, video display and telecommunications networks," said Salomon Brothers (Asia) Ltd analyst Carole Ryavec. "But Matsushita (Electric Industrial Co Ltd) may be there first." But Sekimoto argues that NEC's overall strengths will carry the day. "Many companies are in the top 10 in computers or microchips or telecommunications, but none is in the top 10 in all three. NEC is unique in that respect," he said. To help its already high rankings, NEC will further increase the high level of offshore production which makes it one of the most multinational of Japan's electronics firms. The company will increase offshore output of all goods it sells overseas to 50 pct from a current 25 pct over the next several years, Sekimoto said. But the firm plans to go it alone in expanding overseas, despite moving last year to become joint owner, along with France's Cie des Machines Bull <BULP.P>, of U.S. Firm Honeywell Inc's <HON> Information Systems unit. "We hope to increase our share in the U.S. Market through the Honeywell tie-up. But our basic strategy is to take an independent and autonomous route," said Sekimoto. The company also plans to maintain its independent line by continuing to make computers which are not compatible with those of International Business Machines Corp <IBM>, he said. "Among the Japanese competitors, only NEC hasn't been caught in software copyright disputes with IBM and our profits and market share have gradually expanded," Sekimoto said. Once new ways of linking non-compatible computers are perfected, IBM compatibility will be irrelevant. "What will matter is the best hardware, the best software and the best ability to meet customers needs," Sekimoto said. In fact, NEC, which has over half of Japan's personal computer market, may go to court to stop competitors selling cheaper machines which can run NEC software but infringe copyright on its operating system, an NEC spokesman said. While industry analysts give NEC high marks for looking ahead, they note that it failed in forecasting microchip demand. Like other Japanese chipmakers, the firm was left with serious excess capacity when lean years followed the boom times. But after two years of cutbacks in capital investment in the sector, Sekimoto thinks the time has come to boost spending again, if only slightly. "We're not going to increase production. But we are going to invest in new product development and upgrade existing plant," he said. Despite NEC's admitted strengths, analysts note the company faces tough times due to stagnant markets. "NEC has excellent worldwide capacity and technology, but they are caught in a downturn which may last a long time," said Salamon's Ryavec. The company forecasts such troubles will slash parent net profits to 30 billion yen in the year ending March 31, 1987, down 43 pct from the previous year, although sales are expected to rise eight pct to 2,130 billion yen. Profits will improve only slightly next year, rising to 38 billion yen on sales of 2,350 billion, it said. REUTER 
JAPAN ADOPTS STOP-GAP BUDGET

The government adopted an 8,829 billion yen stop-gap budget for fiscal 1987 starting April 1 to compensate for the delay in the passage through the Parliament of the full 1987/88 budget. The provisional budget includes 1,862 billion yen in public works spending to help stimulate the economy and meet overseas demand for Japan to import more and reduce its huge trade surplus, officials said. They said the stop-gap budget will be in effect for 50 days through May 20 and is the largest ever. The budget includes 1,580 billion yen in new government bond issues. Officials said the spending on public works accounts for about two-sevenths of the 6,017 billion yen in public works outlay set aside in the pending formal 1987/88 budget. The planned full budget totals 54,101 billion yen. The government had to work out the stop-gap budget because budget debates have been delayed by an opposition boycott of Parliamentary business in protest against a planned five pct sales tax. REUTER 
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN FEBRUARY

Japan's industrial production index (base 1980) rose 0.3 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.7 in February from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Output fell 0.5 pct in January from a month earlier. The preliminary, unadjusted February index rose 0.6 pct from a year earlier after a 0.5 pct year-on-year rise in January The adjusted February producers' shipment index (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to 118.5 from January when it fell 0.7 pct from December. The unadjusted shipment index rose 1.4 pct from a year earlier after a 1.0 pct year-on-year January gain. The adjusted February index of producers' finished goods (base 1980) fell 1.3 pct to 104.5 from January when it fell 0.3 pct from December. The unadjusted index fell 3.5 pct from a year earlier after a 2.3 pct year-on-year drop in January. A 2.7 pct rise by the electronics industry on higher output of facsimile machines and video tape recorders was a major contributor to the rise in February industrial output, though car production fell from January. The official said industrial production is expected to rise 3.2 pct in March on higher production by machinery, steel and chemical makers but will drop 3.4 pct in April on a downturn in the output of those industries. He gave no further details. REUTER 
TOKYO GROUP DEVELOPS FASTER AIDS SCREEN

A Tokyo Medical College group said it had developed a five-minute method that may be the world's fastest way of screening people for the AIDS virus. Lecturer Junko Renard told a meeting of the Japan Blood Transfusion Society new Latex Particle Agglutination Test used a light meter to identify acquired immune deficiency syndrome in blood mixed with a reagent and a latex rubber compound. State officials said Japan will step up its anti-AIDS campaign with 340,000 posters and a telephone counselling service in 21 cities this month. It will also hand out 90,000 books on AIDS diagnosis to hospitals and clinics. REUTER 
JAPAN CONSTRUCTION ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Orders received in February by 50 major Japanese construction firms rose 2.7 pct to 841.68 billion yen from a year earlier for the third successive year-on-year gain, the construction ministry said. Orders rose 1.7 pct from an upward revised 827.25 billion yen in January. Orders in February from the private sector rose 17.0 pct from a year earlier to 614.26 billion yen, for the fourth consecutive year-on-year rise. This comes after a 37.3 pct rise in January from a year earlier, to a downward revised 598.09 billion. The February increase over a year earlier reflected a 23.9 pct rise in orders from non-manufacturing industries, absorbing a 10.8 pct drop in those from manufacturers. Public sector orders fell 17.8 pct from a year earlier to 183.54 billion yen. There was an 11.4 pct year-on-year rise to 160.74 billion in January. Foreign orders were 20.08 billion yen, down 47.7 pct from a year before, after a 69.9 pct drop to an upward revised 43.61 billion in January. Orders below 10 mln yen fell 27.7 pct from a year earlier to 23.80 billion yen. This was after a 5.9 pct decline to an upward revised 24.81 billion in January. REUTER 
Tokyo share average rises 467.87 to record 22,026.66 close



JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP

Japan's current account surplus rose to 7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago and from 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said. The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January. The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40 billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from 12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said. Japan's February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from 14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion in January, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from 10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January. The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs in February from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mln deficit in January. Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding. Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit last month from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mln deficit in January. The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to 4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37 billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swung to a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus in January. Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus, compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10 billion deficit in January. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a year earlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January. The seasonally adjusted trade surplus fell to 9.16 billion dlrs in February from the record 9.58 billion in January, the Ministry said. The seasonally adjusted current account surplus also dropped to 8.4 billion dlrs in February from the record 8.83 billion set in January. REUTER 
JAPAN STORE SALES RISE IN FEBRUARY

Department store and supermarket sales in February rose 3.7 pct from a year earlier to 1,080 billion yen, after a 2.6 pct year-on-year gain in January, boosted by higher sales of clothes and food at department stores, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. The unadjusted total included department store sales of 559 billion yen, up 5.1 pct from a year earlier, and supermarket sales of 521 billion, up 2.4 pct. The seasonally adjusted store sales index (base 1985) fell 1.5 pct to a preliminary 106.7 in February from 108.3 in January compared with 102.9 a year earlier. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL

The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget, adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry to issue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fund financing bills, government sources said. Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be used to buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall. The government sources said the amount, covering the first 50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90 pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the full budget. REUTER 
JAPANESE FOREIGN STOCK PURCHASES JUMP IN FEBRUARY

Japanese net purchases of foreign stocks jumped to a near-record 1.52 billion dlrs in February from 113 mln in January, the Finance Ministry said. Net buying hit a record 1.55 billion dlrs last December. Gross purchases of foreign stocks rose to 4.48 billion dlrs in February from 2.67 billion in January, while gross sales were 2.96 billion against 2.56 billion. All figures are subject to rounding. Japanese net purchases of foreign bonds, excluding bills, dropped to 9.41 billion dlrs in February from 10.46 billion in January, the ministry said. The ministry said gross purchases of foreign bonds were 115.53 billion dlrs in February, down from 118.04 billion in January, while foreign bond sales fell to 106.12 billion from 107.58 billion. Foreign investors sold a net 427 mln dlrs of Japanese bonds, excluding bills, after buying 227 mln dlrs in January. They took a gross 26.59 billion dlrs of Japanese bonds, up from 14.16 billion in January, and sold 27.02 billion, up from 13.94 billion. They sold a net 153 mln dlrs of stocks, down from 681 mln in the previous month. Gross foreign purchases of Japanese shares rose to 13.64 billion dlrs in February from 9.54 billion in January, while gross sales rose to 13.76 billion from 10.22 billion. REUTER 
TWO JAPANESE STEELMAKERS' CAPITAL SPENDING FALLS

Kawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T> said its parent company's capital spending in the year from April 1 will fall to 75 billion yen from 110 billion in the current year, and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T> said its capital spending will drop to 70 billion yen from 85 billion. Both companies said they do not plan to start new large construction projects linked to production increases in the coming year, because of the yen's appreciation and slow world steel demand. REUTER 
JAPAN ALUMINIUM OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Japanese aluminium output fell to 5,298 tonnes in February from 7,472 in January and 14,280 a year earlier, preliminary International Trade and Industry Ministry figures show. Output fell sharply from a year ago as most aluminium firms stopped smelting in the past year due to cheap imports, industry sources said. Sales and end-month stocks in tonnes were: Feb 87 Jan 87 Feb 86 Sales 36,557 38,678 75,687 Stocks 53,248 56,620 127,083 REUTER 
JAPAN ALUMINIUM IMPORTS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Japanese primary aluminium imports rose to 98,170 tonnes in February from 91,157 in January and 94,926 a year earlier, the Japan Aluminium Federation said. This brought total imports in 1986/87, ending March 31, to 1.09 mln tonnes against 1.25 mln a year earlier. The February total included 19,102 tonnes from the U.S. Against 16,577 in January and 9,933 a year ago, 24,391 from Australia against 19,585 and 21,208, and 12,611 from Indonesia against 5,891 and 16,601. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK TRADING TO BE SHORTENED FROM MONDAY

The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it will shorten the trading session for stocks and convertible bonds by 30 minutes from March 30 to cope with high volume and will maintain the cut as long as excessive trading continues. Stock turnover hit a record 2.6 billion shares today, exceeding the previous peak of 2.4 billion set on March 18. Afternoon trading will start at 1330 local time (0430 GMT) instead of the current 1300. (0400). REUTER 
TRADE SURPLUS WILL POSE ADDED PRESSURES FOR JAPAN

Japan today announced another mammoth monthly trade surplus that economists said would be sure to intensify already mounting pressure on the country for action. "The world has every reason to be furious with Japan for not moving more quickly," Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd economist Eric Rasmussen said. The Finance Ministry said today that the trade surplus soared to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 5.7 billion in January and 4.77 billion a year ago. The current account surplus, which includes trade in services as well as goods, climbed to 7.38 billion dlrs last month from 4.95 billion in January and 3.89 billion a year ago. After being adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, the figures look a bit better, but not much. On that basis, the trade surplus declined slightly in February to 9.16 billion dlrs from a record 9.58 billion in January. "In the medium term we expect this modest improvement to continue but the pace of progress may be too slow to ward off further protectionism or further yen strength," said William Stirling, economist at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc. A strong yen would make Japanese goods more expensive on world markets while making imports into the country cheaper. "On a seasonally adjusted basis, we appear to be making some progress on getting exports down," Jardine's Rasmussen said. But imports do not seem to be picking up much because the Japanese economy remains sluggish, he said. Finance Ministry officials blamed last month's slower import growth on a decline in oil imports as refiners worked off stocks they had built up in January. The officials took comfort from a decline in the volume of exports last month, after an unexpected year-on-year increase in January. This means the effects of the two-year rise of the yen against the U.S. Dollar are finally beginning to have an impact on exports, they said. But economists warned that may not be soon enough for Japan's trading partners. REUTER 
WORLD BANK CHIEF URGES MORE JAPANESE INVESTMENT

World Bank President Barber Conable called on Japan to boost investment in developing nations, for its own sake as well as that of the world economy. "Japan has the means to make a major contribution to development in the Third World," he told about 500 Japanese businessmen and academics. "I would be pleased with additional support." With 25 pct of the world's total banking assets, Japan could do more to help assist indebted Third World countries develop roads, bridges and other infrastructure, he said. Conable said additional commercial bank investment would also be to Japan's advantage. It would profit from rechannelling its huge trade surplus into Third World economies -- notably those in South America, China and India -- that are likely to expand faster than those in the developed world, he said. Japan is now the second largest shareholder in the Bank's concessionary lending affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA). It has also agreed recently to expand its contribution to another affiliate, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), Conable noted. Conable said the World Bank was expanding its structural adjustment loans, designed to encourage developing countries to open their economies more to free competition and trade. "Adjustment loans could rise to 30 pct (of total World Bank loans) in the near future, though maybe not this year," Conable told Reuters after his speech. Such loans currently account for slightly over 20 pct. REUTER 
JAPAN LIKELY TO ALLOW FOREIGN FUTURES MARKET USE

The finance ministry appears ready to allow Japanese financial institutions to use overseas financial futures markets, a ministry official said. He declined to say when, but banking sources expect approval as early as April. Banks, securities houses and insurance companies are expected to become eligible to deal in deposit, interest rate, bond and stock index futures. Ministry officials said they are wary of giving permission to individuals or corporations because of their relative inexperience. Broking for Japanese residents by financial institutions would be prohibited as securities exchange laws bar banks from doing this, the banking sources said. Overseas subsidiaries and branches of Japanese banks and securities houses have already been allowed to use the overseas futures markets on their own accounts. The Finance Ministry Ordinance based on Foreign Exchange Administration Law will have to be revised to allow local institutions to join the overseas markets, a ministry official said. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL

The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget, adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry to issue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fund financing bills, government sources said. Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be used to buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall. The government sources said the amount, covering the first 50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90 pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the full budget. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP

Japan's current account surplus rose to 7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago and from 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said. The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January. The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40 billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from 12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said. Japan's February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from 14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion in January, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from 10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January. The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs in February from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mln deficit in January. Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding. Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit last month from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mln deficit in January. The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to 4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37 billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swung to a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus in January. Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus, compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10 billion deficit in January. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a year earlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January. REUTER 
JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY

Japan's consumer price index (base 1985) was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January. The February index was down one pct from a year earlier for the third consecutive year-on-year drop. In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, the first drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September 1958. Reuter 
JAPAN DRAFT ECONOMIC PACKAGE DUE IN EARLY APRIL

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has told his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to come up with a draft economic package in early April in time for his visit to Washington starting on April 29, government officials said. Nakasone also instructed the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA) to work closer with the LDP to work out a full-fledged economic plan to boost domestic demand as pledged at last month's Paris currency stability accord by six industrial countries, the officials told Reuters. Reuter 
JAPAN TO INTRODUCE YEN COMMERCIAL PAPER IN OCTOBER

The Finance Ministry is expected to introduce yen commercial paper, CP, from October 1 in response to growing calls from corporations, ministry sources said. Around 200 corporations satisfy financial standards set by securities houses for non-collateral straight bond issues, including electric power companies, <Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp> and Kokusai Denshin Denwa Co Ltd, securities managers said. Most eligible firms would have to set up special reserves for CP issues called backup lines, or be guaranteed by financial institutions to protect investors, they said. The legal status of yen CP would be the same as yen commercial bills and it would be placed by an intermediary bank or securities house, securities managers said. The minimum issue unit will be 100 mln yen, and maturities will be from 30 days and six months, they said. Securities houses, banks, insurance companies and consumer credit companies are barred from CP issues, they said. Only banks may be commissioned to handle the clerical business of principle payments, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN LIKELY TO ALLOW FOREIGN FUTURES MARKET USE

The finance ministry appears ready to allow Japanese financial institutions to use overseas financial futures markets, a ministry official said. He declined to say when, but banking sources expect approval as early as April. Banks, securities houses and insurance companies are expected to become eligible to deal in deposit, interest rate, bond and stock index futures. Ministry officials said they are wary of giving permission to individuals or corporations because of their relative inexperience. Broking for Japanese residents by financial institutions would be prohibited as securities exchange laws bar banks from doing this, the banking sources said. Overseas subsidiaries and branches of Japanese banks and securities houses have already been allowed to use the overseas futures markets on their own accounts. The Finance Ministry Ordinance based on Foreign Exchange Administration Law will have to be revised to allow local institutions to join the overseas markets, a ministry official said. Reuter 
SOUTH KOREA SIGNS FOR 44.6 BILLION YEN CREDIT

South Korea signed with Japan for a 44.6 billion yen credit facility, part of a four billion dlr aid package for South Korea's economic development plan to 1988, Foreign Ministry officials here said. The facility, to be used mostly for building a multi-purpose dam and modernising educational and medical facilities and for sewer projects, bears interest of 4.25 pct per year and is repayable over 18 years after a grace period of seven years. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan has already purchased more than one billion dlrs in intervention since the opening and continues to buy the U.S. Currency, dealers said. The central bank was supporting the dollar against the yen amid heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and securities houses which had pushed the dollar as low as 144.75 yen earlier this morning, they said. The dollar recovered slightly from the intervention and was trading around 145.00, they added. It had opened in Tokyo at 145.80 yen. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fall further. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely with other major nations to stabilize exchange rates. The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watch on exchange rate movements since last week, he said. He said the dollar would not continue to fall because of underlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen. Sumita said the currency market has been reacting to overseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and the U.S. Over semiconductors. The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan from expanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economic restructuring, he said. REUTER 
DLR FALLS ON FEAR TOKYO WON'T HIKE DEMAND-MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand. He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget. The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. REUTER 
JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY -- SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar. But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN VTR PRODUCTION FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Japan's video tape recorder (VTR) production fell 10.4 pct from a year earlier to 2.18 mln sets in February for the third successive year-on-year drop, reflecting slow exports, the Electronic Industries Association of Japan said. But February output was up 27.2 pct from a month earlier. Colour television production rose 5.7 pct from a year earlier to 1.20 mln sets in February after 15 consecutive year-on-year drops. The February increase over a year ago reflected higher domestic sales. The production was up 38.5 pct from a month earlier. REUTER 
JAPAN WANTS GOVERNMENTS TO BUY ITS T-BILLS

The Finance Ministry is trying to eliminate technical obstacles so as to encourage purchases of Japanese Treasury bills by foreign governments and central banks, in order to increase overseas holdings of yen assets, a senior Finance Ministry official said. The official declined to give details but securities sources said they expect the 16 pct withholding tax on T-bills to be repaid immediately when governments and central banks buy bills. The current practice of filing tax redemption claims is time consuming, they said. Securities houses here have had difficulty selling six-month debt-financing paper, called tankoku, to overseas governments and central banks because of the tax system and the Bank of Japan's book entry system, which demands the accounts be kept with the houses rather than by the Bank. Tankoku, introduced in February 1986, were designed as a key short-term instrument to promote internationalization of the yen. But since the introduction of a complicated book-entry system for bill purchases in January 1986, foreign governments and central banks have shied away from buying the bills, the sources said. Foreign governments and central banks are therefore expected to be allowed to hold their accounts at the Bank of Japan, the securities sources said. Relevant measures are likely to be announced at the next U.S.-Japan yen-dollar committee meeting on the deregulation of Tokyo's financial market, expected in May, they said. REUTER 
SUMITOMO MINING <SMIT.T> RAISES NICKEL OUTPUT

Sumitomo Metal Mining Co said it will raise its monthly nickel output to around 1,750 tonnes from April 1 from 1,650 now because of increased domestic demand, mainly from stainless steel makers. Sumitomo produced 1,800 tonnes of a nickel a month until end-1986, but cut output in January because of stagnant demand, a company official said. Calendar 1987 production is likely to fall to around 20,000 tonnes from 22,000 in 1986 as a result of the first quarter reduction, he said. Sumitomo is Japan's only nickel producer. REUTER 
JAPAN VEHICLE EXPORTS FALL IN FEBRUARY

Japanese vehicle exports fell 8.2 pct in February from January to 530,066, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said. February exports fell 6.8 pct from a year earlier after a 6.8 pct year-on-year rise in January, the first growth since June 1986, when they rose 4.4 pct from a year earlier. February exports included 361,285 cars, down 6.3 pct from a year earlier, 165,770 trucks, down 8.6 pct, and 3,011 buses, up 51.4 pct. Exports to the U.S. Fell to 226,942 in February from 259,272 a year earlier, while those to the European Community rose to 141,095 from 121,050. The EC figure included 63,387 vehicles to West Germany, up from 41,821, but exports to Britain fell to 20,554 from 28,536. Shipments to South-east Asia fell to 33,957 from 41,960 and those to the Middle East fell to 15,828 from 25,278. Japan's motorcycle exports rose 18 pct from January to 177,115 in February, but fell 25.9 pct from a year earlier, the 12th consecutive year-on-year drop. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCKS PLUNGE 502.98 TO 21,675.04 DUE TO YEN RISE AGAINST DOLLAR -- BROKERS



STOCKS PLUNGE IN LATE TOKYO TRADE

Stocks plunged sharply just before the close of trade as the yen's continued rise against the dollar and Friday's order by President Reagan to impose weighty duties on key Japanese export sectors prompted investors to evacuate their stock holdings, brokers said. At 1456 local time the index had slumped 502.98 to 21,675.04, the day's low. On Saturday the index rose 151.36 to a record high of 22,178.02. Brokers said today's decline was led by selling of multinational export companies' shares. REUTER 
JAPAN SEEKS RECORD LOW 4.7 PCT APRIL BOND COUPON

The Finance Ministry said it proposed to the underwriting syndicate a record low 4.7 pct coupon on the 10-year government bond to be issued in April, down from the previous record low five pct March issue. The bond would be priced at 99.75 to yield 4.736 pct compared with 99.50 and 5.075 pct in March, and proposed issue volume is 1,400 billion yen against 475 billion, it said. The syndicate is expected to accept the terms immediately, underwriters said. REUTER 
JAPANESE KEEN TO ENTER GERMAN PRIMARY BOND MARKET

Japanese securities houses and banks are eager to enter the market for lead-management of mark eurobonds when the ban on Japanese institutions is lifted, but the entry may be difficult, Japanese bankers said. Most Japanese securities houses and banks established here said they have concrete plans to enter lead-management business, as soon as terms are cleared, probably this year. Japan's largest bank, The Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd, is also considering expanding its business here, bankers said. Japanese banks were excluded from lead management of mark eurobonds when the Bundesbank opened that market to foreign banks in May 1985, due to the lack of reciprocity for German banks in the Japanese market. Last year, the Japanese began a slow opening by granting West German banks investment licences. Pressure on Tokyo stepped up last week when U.K. Government sources said Britain may revoke the licences of some Japanese banks and securities firms operating in London when they come up for renewal if progress is not made towards opening Japan's markets to foreign competition. A spokesman for the Dai-Ichi Kangyo representative office here said the bank was naturally considering options such as expanding its mark securities trading operations to Frankfurt. Sources at the bank's London branch said the bank was already seriously planning such a move. Expanding secondary operations would also improve the placement capacity of Japanese houses intending to move into lead management of mark eurobonds. But even Japanese banks already established in secondary markets here face a host of problems in lead management. One is finding borrowers. One banker at Nikko Securities Co Ltd's The Nikko Securities Co (Deutschland) GmbH said the cost of mark issues may be too high for some Japanese firms. "For the moment, for Japanese borrowers, marks are expensive," he said. Many prefer Swiss francs or eurodollars. A Japanese borrower with a five-year equity warrant eurodollar bond issued at 2-1/2 pct can now swap into domestic yen rates of one pct. But mark swap opportunities are limited. In addition, many Japanese companies are committed already to large German banks. To avoid souring relations with German banks they now cooperate with, Japanese houses may prefer finding borrowers so far not seen in the mark sector. Names may include Sanyo Electric Co Ltd and Nishimatsu Construction Co Ltd, which both count Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd as their house bank, or Hokkaido Electric Power Co Inc, which recently gave a presentation here with the Industrial Bank of Japan's unit here. Japanese banks are also faced with finding local personnel, which is not easy. "They are definitely going to have a manpower problem," one Swiss banker said. Swiss and American banks had no trouble attracting top German managers. But Japanese cultural differences will be harder for Germans to overcome. Success may depend on whether Japanese parents allow German subsidiaries independence to operate without interference. Once established, more problems are expected if extra competition shaves margins. Extra competition could cut management fees in the mark sector. Separate management and underwriting fees common here may also be eroded, which now make German underwriting business profitable compared with other centres. A few banks are unsure if they really want to get involved in the business. "I don't think Sumitomo has 100-pct concrete plans at this moment unless there is a new development," a banker at the West German commercial branch of Sumito Bank Ltd in Duesseldorf said. Apart from the commercial branch in Duesseldorf Sumitomo has a rep office in Frankfurt, but both are primarily engaged in commercial banking. If Sumitomo were to set up a securities operation, it would have to set up a full subsidiary, he said. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE CUTS TRADING HOURS

The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it cut trading time from today by 30 minutes to inhibit volume after recent trade turnover records. The cut extends the lunch break to 1115 to 1330 local time (0315 to 0530 GMT) from 1115 to 1300 local time (0315 to 0500 GMT) and follows record turnover of 2.6 billion shares on Friday. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS LARGE AMOUNT OF BRAZILIAN SOYBEANS

Japanese crushers have bought some 214,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans for late April/early July shipment and may buy up to 140,000 to 190,000 tonnes more for June to August shipment, trade sources said. Japan imported 128,089 tonnes of Brazilian beans in calendar 1986, Finance Ministry customs-cleared statistics show. The sources said Brazilian beans were cheaper than U.S. Origin which may account for the heavy purchases, but added there were concerns about deliveries from Brazil in the near term due to labour problems there. The Japanese purchases comprise 30,000 tonnes for April 20/May 10 shipment, 102,000 for May, 15,000 for late May/early June, 36,000 for June, and 31,000 for late June/early July shipment, the sources said. As a result of the large volumes of Brazilian beans purchased, Japanese crushers will buy a total of only 150,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for May shipment. Some 100,000 of this shipment has already been purchased, the sources added. They said crushers bought some 270,000 to 280,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for April shipment. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 500 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 500 billion yen of financing bills via a 32-day repurchase agreement to help mop up a money market surplus of around 1,750 billion yen tomorrow, short-term money houses said. The bill, to mature on May 2, will produce a 3.8995 pct yield on the sales, made by the Bank of Japan to banks and seucurities houses through money houses, they said. The repurchase agreement yield compares with the 3.9375 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.40 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit. The surplus is due largely to government tax allocations to local governments and public entities at the end of fiscal 1986/87 tomorrow. The operation will put outstanding bill supplies at about 2,500 billion yen. REUTER 



JAPANESE SHIPYARDS TO FORM CARTEL, CUT OUTPUT

Japan's ailing shipyards have won approval from the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash production to about half of total capacity for one year, effective April 1, industry sources said. The approval follows an act of parliament passed last week designed to help the industry regroup and shed 20 pct of capacity by March 31, 1988, Transport Ministry officials said. The cartel, comprising 33 yards capable of constructing ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes, will limit newbuilding output to a maximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes in 1987/88, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan said. Industry sources said the 33 will seek to renew the cartel in 1988/89 in the belief demand will remain sluggish. Last week's temporary act of parliament also allows shipbuilders to receive favourable taxation terms plus up to 50 billion yen in compensation for liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess capacity. Up to 30 billion yen has been allocated for purchasing redundant land and equipment from shipbuilders. The Ministry will start drawing up its restructuring guidelines from April 1 and the yards will implement the guidelines from September, industry sources said. REUTER 
TORAY INDUSTRIES NAMES NEW PRESIDENT

Toray Industries Inc <TORT.T>, Japan's top synthetic fibre maker, named managing director Katsunosuke Maeda as president, effective April 16. Current president Yoshikazu Ito will become chairman. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said. He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall. The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman. Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER 
NISSAN MEXICANA TO TAKE OVER CAR ENGINE EXPORTS

<Nissan Mexicana SA de CV>, owned 96.4 pct by Nissan Motor Co Ltd <NSAN.T> and the rest by Marubeni Corp <MART.T>, will supply all engines for manual transmission "Sentra" cars produced by Nissan Motor's wholly-owned subsidiary <Nissan Motor Manufacturing Corp USA> (NMMC), a Nissan spokeswoman said. Nissan's shift to Mexican production from Japan is due to improved quality there and the yen's rise against the dollar. From July 1987, all car engines for NMMC will be supplied by Nissan Mexicana. As a start, Nissan Mexicana shipped a total of 17,000 car engines to NMMC last summer, the spokeswoman said. NMMC in Smyrna, Tennessee, which has produced Sentras since March 1985, made 65,000 cars. NMMC will more than double Sentra production to 140,000 this year including 80,000 to 90,000 manuals, she said. REUTER 
JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS

A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales. However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks. Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 
JAPAN WANTS GOVERNMENTS TO BUY ITS T-BILLS

The Finance Ministry is trying to eliminate technical obstacles so as to encourage purchases of Japanese Treasury bills by foreign governments and central banks, in order to increase overseas holdings of yen assets, a senior Finance Ministry official said. The official declined to give details but securities sources said they expect the 16 pct withholding tax on T-bills to be repaid immediately when governments and central banks buy bills. The current practice of filing tax redemption claims is time consuming, they said. Securities houses here have had difficulty selling six-month debt-financing paper, called tankoku, to overseas governments and central banks because of the tax system and the Bank of Japan's book entry system, which demands the accounts be kept with the houses rather than by the Bank. Tankoku, introduced in February 1986, were designed as a key short-term instrument to promote internationalization of the yen. But since the introduction of a complicated book-entry system for bill purchases in January 1986, foreign governments and central banks have shied away from buying the bills, the sources said. Foreign governments and central banks are therefore expected to be allowed to hold their accounts at the Bank of Japan, the securities sources said. Relevant measures are likely to be announced at the next U.S.-Japan yen-dollar committee meeting on the deregulation of Tokyo's financial market, expected in May, they said. REUTER 
G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said that Japan and other industrialized nations committed themselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above 150 yen. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the six nations have taken measures, including market intervention, to support the dollar above that level. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committee that the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollar fell below 150 yen. Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilize exchange rates. Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals of each nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he did not think the fundamentals themselves had changed substantially. But he said the market is sensitively looking at what is happening in major nations. He did not elaborate. Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there has been such speculative dollar selling in the market. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said. He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall. The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman. Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fall further. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely with other major nations to stabilize exchange rates. The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watch on exchange rate movements since last week, he said. He said the dollar would not continue to fall because of underlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen. Sumita said the currency market has been reacting to overseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and the U.S. over semiconductors. The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan from expanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economic restructuring, he said. Reuter 
DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand. He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget. The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. Reuter 
JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY - SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar. But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. Reuter 
JAPAN SET TO RIDE OUT YEN RISE, OFFICIALS SAY

The government is determined to ride out the latest sharp rise of the yen without taking panic measures because it expects the currency's appreciation to prove temporary, senior officials said. "The market has already located a ceiling (for the yen) and market forces are pushing the dollar back up a bit," one senior Finance Ministry official said. He attributed the dollar's fall in recent days to special factors, in particular, selling by Japanese investors ahead of the March 31 end to their fiscal year. That selling largely came to an end this morning after about one hour of trading here, the senior official said. "They (the investors) became more or less quiet after 10 o'clock (0100 GMT)," he said. After falling to a record low of 144.70 yen this morning, the dollar edged back up in late trading to end at 146.20. Dealers attributed the late rise to remarks by Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone that major nations had agreed to stabilise the dollar above 150 yen. Several officials said they did not see any fundamental reason for the dollar's recent sharp fall. One official even called the market's recent actions irrational. If anything, the U.S. Decision to slap tariffs on Japanese electronics goods should support the dollar against the yen because it will cut Japanese exports to the U.S., He said. As a result, several officials said they saw no reason to alter the broad thrust of government policy agreed to at last month's meeting of major nations in Paris. "We don't see any substantial reason to change our policy stance," one senior official said. 
JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS

A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales. However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks. Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 
SONY INCREASING PRODUCTION ABROAD

Sony Corp <SNE.T> will increase production abroad to overcome falling profits caused by the yen's rise against the dollar, managing board chairman Akio Morita told the West German newspaper Die Welt. He was quoted as saying that Sony, whose latest profit figures had been affected strongly by dollar fluctuations, would increase production in the U.S. And Europe. Several production facilities were being built, he added. "At the same time we are also investing capital in order to modernise our locations and raise our productivity." Morita said that to overcome the same currency problems, Japan needs to restructure its economy in order to live less from exports and more from domestic demand. He said U.S. And European companies had made the mistake of not investing enough in the future, which was why they had lost their lead in consumer electronics. "They may spend a lot of money on research and development," he said. "But planning and marketing are very important sectors in developing a marketable product." "If they don't spend money on these, they can't build up new business lines." Speaking of difficulties foreign firms experience in penetrating the Japanese market, Morita said "Naturally, I have to admit that there are still many obstacles in Japan." On the other hand, many foreign firms were too interested in short-term success, he said. "If, therefore, a company comes to Japan and wants to make a profit at once on this market, it is not so simple." "These people then complain, while the successful firms keep their mouths shut," Morita said. Reuter 
JAPAN BUYS CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 2,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
Japan February unemployment falls to 2.9 pct (3.0 pct in January) - official



JAPAN UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell to 2.9 pct in February from the record 3.0 pct in January, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. The January level was the worst since the Goverment started compiling unemployment statistics under the current system in 1953. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted February unemployment totalled 1.86 mln people, up from 1.82 mln in January and 1.64 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in February remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-highest level set in January and December. Record male unemployment of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment rose to a record 3.1 pct in February from the previous record 3.0 pct marked in January 1987 and in April, August, September and December last year. "Japan's employment condition was still severe in February as the non-rounded rate of unemployment in February fell only 0.03 percentage points to 2.93 pct from 2.96 pct in January," an agency official said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 430,000 from a year earlier to 14.22 mln people in February due to the yen's continued appreciation, while employment in non-manufacturing industries rose 380,000 to 12.11 mln. In manufacturing industries, employment in the textile industry fell 180,000 to 1.94 mln in February, while in ordinary and precision machinery industries it fell 160,000 to 1.50 mln. REUTER 
DLR BELOW 150 YEN COUNTER TO PARIS PACT - MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he regards a U.S. Dollar below 150 yen as counter to the agreement struck by major nations in Paris last month. He told the Upper House Budget Committee in Parliament that Japan intervened in the market when the dollar went below 150 yen, as it considered the dollar's fall below that level counter to the spirit of the Paris accord. Commenting on current foreign exchange movements, Miyazawa said Japan would watch developments for another couple of days. Institutional investors appeared to have sold dollars to hedge currency risks ahead of the end of the financial year today, Miyazawa said. Behind the recent dollar fall lies the market perception that major nations were not doing enough to implement their policies under the Paris pact, he said, noting that passage of Japan's 1987/88 budget has been delayed. He said that now was the time for major nations to act under the Paris accord. The U.S., West Germany, France, Switzerland and Britain have intervened on their own account to prop up the dollar, he said. This was a concerted action. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS AROUND 145.75 YEN - DEALERS



JAPAN HOUSING STARTS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Japan's housing starts in February rose 13.4 pct from a year earlier to 109,254, the 10th successive year-on-year gain, the Construction Ministry said. February housing starts were up 16.8 pct from 93,554 in January when they fell 27.4 pct from a month earlier but rose 10.3 pct from a year earlier. Higher housing starts were mainly due to a 26.8 pct year-on-year rise in apartment building starts to 51,829 for the 56th consecutive gain, spurred primarily by lower domestic interest rates. RUTER 
NAKASONE SAYS JAPAN PLANS DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said Japan plans to work out a drastic set of pump-priming measures immediately after Parliament passes the 1987/88 budget. He told a Lower House budget committee the government is likely to consider a supplementary budget for fiscal 1987 and a new policy for the ceiling on budgetary requests by government agencies and ministries for 1988/89. The government had cut budgetary requests in the past five years in line with Nakasone's fiscal reconstruction policy of stopping the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. The passage of the budget is expected in late May. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said in the same session Japan should use fiscal funds as much as possible to meet domestic and foreign demands for greater domestic growth. Miyazawa said it appears difficult for the government to stop the deficit-financing bond issues by the targetted time. Nakasone said he had instructed his Liberal Democratic Party to prepare its own economic package in time for his one-week visit to Washington starting on April 29. REUTER 
JAPAN TO PAY FIVE PCT LESS FOR INDIAN IRON ORE

Japan will pay five pct less for the Indian iron ore it imports in fiscal 1987/88 starting April 1 than the average 18 dlrs a tonne it paid in 1986/87, a government trade official told Reuters. He said India had agreed to export to Japan about 23 mln tonnes of iron ore in 1987/88, about the same as in the current year. The official described the agreement as satisfactory overall. He said it was signed by an official Indian trade delegation and Japanese businessmen in Tokyo last week. The official said it was encouraging that Japan had agreed not to reduce ore imports from India although Japan's total iron ore imports would be lower in the coming year because of the recession in the Japanese steel industry. He said Japanese ore imports in calendar 1987 would total 96 mln tonnes, compared with 103.5 mln in 1986. Government officials said India's total ore exports are likely to rise to between 33 and 34 mln tonnes in 1987/88, against a provisionally estimated 31 mln in 1986/87. REUTER 
FUJI FILM <FUJI.T> TO SET UP WEST GERMAN UNIT

Fuji Photo Film Co Ltd will set up a wholly-owned subsidiary in Kleve, West Germany, to produce video cassette tapes, a spokesman said. The company, <Fuji Magnetics GmbH>, will be capitalised at 25 mln marks and produce two mln tapes a month for the European market from early 1988, he said. Total investment will be about 100 mln marks and the plant will create 200 jobs, including about 190 for local workers. Fuji Photo plans to make the Kleve plant its European production centre for magnetic products, and may make audio cassette tapes and floppy discs later, the spokesman said. REUTER 
JAPANESE HESITATE TO INVEST IN WEST GERMAN STOCKS

Japanese investors are reluctant to buy West German stocks, now considered one of the most attractive buys around after having taken a beating for the past two years, investment managers said. Although the Frankfurt stock market is one of the world's largest in capitalisation, wealthy Japanese institutions view it as too small. They also worry about venturing into a market from which British investors have recently bailed out, they said. "There's not enough turnover there to absorb the amount of buying Japanese want to do," one West German investment manager said. There is a danger Japanese institutions may be unable to liquidate their holdings quickly if the market takes a sudden downturn, he added. "Japanese familiarity with West German stocks is also limited," another investment manager said. "They know the blue chips, but there are too many other names they don't know." The recent rapid advance of the Tokyo stock market has also deterred Japanese from wandering off to markets abroad, investment managers said. Japanese fund managers are afraid of criticism if they buy into unsure overseas markets while the market at home continues to advance, said Seiji Yamamoto, senior manager at Dresdner ABD Securities Ltd's Tokyo branch. If gains from investments abroad lag behind those possible from the Tokyo market, they could face difficulty explaining their funds' performance, he added. The Frankfurt market's 15 pct depreciation just since the beginning of this year has also been causing Japanese investors to turn away, one investment manager said. The Frankfurt slump stems from expectations of slow corporate growth due to the mark's strength against the dollar and a withdrawal of funds by British institutions just before the London market's liberalisation last year, the investment manager said. "Right now Japanese investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude while the condition of the market remains unfavourable," he said. Although there has been some nibbling of West German stocks, particularly last week, most of the buys were for short-term trades rather than long-term investments, an investment advisor at a West German firm said. Investment managers believe, however, that genuine interest in West German stocks could develop within the next three to six months. Japanese fund managers still favour the New York and the London markets over the Frankfurt market but they are interested in diversifying some of their funds, they said. Some managers have been travelling in Europe, looking for new opportunities, and are unlikely to ignore West German stocks, especially with the average price/earnings ratio at about 11, they said. The Frankfurt ratio compares with about 16 for the U.S. And London markets and 52 for the Japanese market, Guenter Kirchhain, first vice president for Deutsche Bank AG said. "This mismatching will sooner or later generate an enormous alignment potential," he said. The West German market could reasonably have an average price/earnings ratio of around 16, he added. Japanese investment plans may soon become clearer as many institutions begin their new business years in April, he said. However, one fund manager does not agree that new investment in West Germany will come that soon. "Japanese do not buy into a market with declining fundamentals," he said. When West Germany's fundamental economic indicators appear to have bottomed out, that will be the turning point for their investments, he added. Another manager said the Japanese are waiting to see the investment trends set by U.S. And British investors in the West German market. "They are waiting for someone to make the first move," he said. REUTER 
HITACHI EXPECTS TO ACHIEVE SALES ESTIMATE

Hitachi Ltd <HIT.T> expects to achieve its parent company sales estimate of 2,900 billion yen in the year ending March 31, helped by high general-use ultra-large computer sales and despite the higher-than-expected yen. Current profits are unlikely to reach the estimated 90 billion yen as the currency's rise has reduced the value of foreign bond holdings, but the company will retain a nine yen dividend for 1986/87, a spokesman said. Current profits in the year to end-March 1986 fell 38.2 pct from a year before to 158.04 billion yen on sales of 3,003 billion, down 0.8 pct, mainly due to the yen's appreciation. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,700 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.8992 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 23-day repurchase accord maturing on April 24. The remaining 500 billion yen will yield 3.8990 pct in a 31-day repurchase pact maturing on May 2, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8750 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.28/11 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit. Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to excess bank holdings from sales of yen to buy dollars and to huge cash amounts to be redeposited at banks after the current financial year-end today, the traders said. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 3,200 billion yen. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN MULLS OTHER OPTIONS TO STOP YEN RISE

Today's liberalised financial markets are making it extremely difficult for Japan's monetary authorities to prevent the yen's rise against the dollar, but they have several options other than normal intervention, Bank of Japan sources said. A senior central bank official said that such methods as controlling foreign exchange deals and invoking currency swap agreements with other central banks, which have not been invoked since 1978, are all being considered. "But the time may not be ripe," he said. "In this era of financial liberalisation, it's almost impossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan," said another senior bank official. But the first official said: "From a technical viewpoint, the Bank of Japan could activate swap agreements immediately after other central banks involved agreed to do so." A swap agreement, an exchange of currency between two nations, allows both sides to acquire a ready source of the other's currency in case of need. "If the Bank invokes such swaps, both parties would announce the decision jointly," said the first official. The sources said they believed the limit of currency market intervention may be being reached after they saw recent concerted market action by central banks of major industrial nations was increasingly ineffective in propping up the battered dollar. But intervention is at least an option, they said. Further easing of monetary policy will be very difficult with an official discount rate already at a record low of 2.5 pct, they said. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita has repeatedly ruled out another rate cut due to fears it could revive inflation. One bank official said he could not deny the possibilty of the Bank of Japan activating currency swap agreements with the U.S. And other central banks, if these banks continue intervening to sell the yen in support of the dollar and run out of their yen cash positions. "But we don't think they have become short of yen quite yet," he said. The bank has established a five billion dlr swap limit with the U.S. Federal Reserve and another 2.5 billion mark and 200 billion yen limit with the West German and Swiss central banks, according to the sources. Foreign exchange dealers estimate the Fed had sold two billion dlrs worth of yen from its own account to support the dollar in New York last week. The central bank sources also said Japan may arrange other currency swap agreements with Britain and France if they find it necessary, but added they are not actually talking with each other towards that end. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,700 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.8992 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 23-day repurchase accord maturing on April 24. The remaining 500 billion yen will yield 3.8990 pct in a 31-day repurchase pact maturing on May 2, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8750 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.28/11 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit. Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to excess bank holdings from sales of yen to buy dollars and to huge cash amounts to be redeposited at banks after the current financial year-end today, the traders said. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 3,200 billion yen. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAYS JAPAN PLANS DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said Japan plans to work out a drastic set of pump-priming measures immediately after Parliament passes the 1987/88 budget. He told a Lower House budget committee the government is likely to consider a supplementary budget for fiscal 1987 and a new policy for the ceiling on budgetary requests by government agencies and ministries for 1988/89. The government had cut budgetary requests in the past five years in line with Nakasone's fiscal reconstruction policy of stopping the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. The passage of the budget is expected in late May. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said in the same session Japan should use fiscal funds as much as possible to meet domestic and foreign demands for greater domestic growth. Miyazawa said it appears difficult for the government to stop the deficit-financing bond issues by the targetted time. Nakasone said he had instructed his Liberal Democratic Party to prepare its own economic package in time for his one-week visit to Washington starting on April 29. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN EARLY TOKYO AFTERNOON

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market in the early afternoon, buying dollars around 147.30 yen and continuing to buy them as high as 147.50 yen, dealers said. The Bank intervened just after the dollar started rising on buying by securities houses at around 147.05 yen, and hoped to accelerate the dollar's advance, they said. The dollar rose as high as 147.50 yen. REUTER 
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said the present foreign exchange market instability will not last long as there is caution in the market regarding the rapid decline of the U.S. Unit. He told reporters the major currency nations are determined to continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary to stave off speculative dollar selling in line with their February 22 currency stability agreement in Paris. Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop as anything like a free-fall. REUTER 
SUMITOMO METAL SETS UP LONDON, OSAKA FINANCE FIRMS

<Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd> has set up two finance firms, one in Osaka and one in London, a company spokesman said. <Sumitomo Metal International Finance Plc> in London is wholly-owned. <Fuso Finance Co Ltd> in Osaka, is owned 50 pct by Sumitomo with the rest equally shared by two small Sumitomo Metal subsidiaries. The two new companies will work for the Sumitomo Metal group on fund raising and investment in financial markets. REUTER 
GLAVERBEL SHARE OFFER OVER 100 TIMES OVERSUBSCRIBED

The public offer by Glaverbel SA, Europe's third biggest glassmaker, of 755,000 shares was more than 100 times oversubscribed, a statement by banks and share dealers responsible for the issue said. Glaverbel offered the shares at 1,850 francs in an operation under which its parent company, Asahi Glass Ltd <ASGL.T> will reduce its participation to 56.7 pct from 73.6 pct previously. Asahi is selling 500,000 shares in Glaverbel while the company itself is issuing 340,000 new shares. Over 10 pct of the total available shares has been reserved for staff. The statement said applicants for over 5,000 shares will receive 30. There is a sliding scale which gives relatively modest applications a higher proportion and those who sought between 101 and 500 shares will receive five. No shares will be given to applicants for fewer than 100 shares. Glaverbel's net consolidated profit rose to 542 mln francs last year from 137 mln in 1985 and the group is to pay a 29 franc gross dividend, its first for over 10 years. As a result of the offer, some 45 pct of Glaverbel's capital, or two mln shares, will be listed on the Brussels bourse. Share dealers said some of the weakness on the bourse recently probably has been due to the amount of money tied up in Glaverbel applications. REUTER 
PROPOSED JAPAN TAX MAY DAMPEN TOKYO GOLD TRADING

A proposed sales tax on gold transactions could put a damper on the Tokyo market and encourage a shift of trading to Hong Kong and Singapore, senior vice president and Tokyo branch manager of Credit Suisse Paul Hofer told a press conference. "If you impose five pct on both buy and sell transactions, Tokyo participants in the gold market could be out of business," he said. The tax would create such a spread that Japanese would be unable to compete in the international market, he added. "How can the government really raise taxes if the system they impose is prohibitive of generating business?" he said. The government now imposes a 15 pct tax on physical trades exceeding 37,500 yen for gold jewellery and coins and a 2.5 yen tax per 10,000 yen on futures transactions, gold dealers said. The new five pct tax would be imposed on companies trading more than 100 mln yen a year and apply to paper gold trades, gold deposits with banks and trading of gold bars as well as that of jewellery and coins, dealers said. However, the tax would lower the rate on jewellery and coins to only five pct from the current 15 pct, they said. Hofer said in 1982 Switzerland had imposed a 5.6 pct gold turnover tax on Jan 1, 1980, but abolished it on Oct 1, 1986. A study by one of the Swiss banks showed that in early 1980, the first year of the tax, the volume for all Swiss banks fell by up to 25 pct compared with 1978 and 1979, Hofer said. Transactions of paper gold also fell up to 75 pct of the volume prior to imposition of the tax, he said. While gold transactions in Switzerland decreased, the volume of trades outside the country, particularly in London and Luxembourg, increased between 10-25 pct, Hofer said. Japan is a major importer of gold, buying a yearly average just under 200 tonnes, gold dealers said. Last year Japan imported about 600 tonnes of gold, but the government had bought about 300 tonnes for minting coins to commemorate the 60th year of Emperor Hirohito's reign, dealers said. Gold trading in Tokyo is dominated mainly by Japanese trading companies, while Credit Suisse is the major foreign participant. Daily turnover in the Tokyo spot market ranges between one and 10 tonnes with the average around three tonnes, while futures turnover amounts to about four tonnes, gold dealers said. "All of us are concerned daily with the fact that the Tokyo market is growing, that Japan is becoming one of the three major financial markets in the world ... And in my personal opinion I think it would be a very big mistake to put a damper on this positive growth or developments by imposing such a tax," Hofer said. "I don't think it fits the philosophy of an internationalising market," he added. Officials of several major Japanese trading houses, attending the press conference, said they supported Credit Suisse's call for the government not to impose the gold tax. REUTER 
KIDNAPPED BUSINESSMAN RELEASED

Kidnapped Japanese businessman Nobuyuki Wakaoji has been released after four months in captivity, Presidential spokesman Teodoro Benigno said. Benigno told reporters the 53-year-old Mitsui and Co Ltd executive was freed yesterday and is being held in an undisclosed hospital. He gave no further details on the release, which was confirmed minutes earlier by a Mitsui spokesman in Tokyo. Reuter 
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said the present foreign exchange market instability will not last long as there is caution in the market regarding the rapid decline of the U.S. Unit. He told reporters the major currency nations are determined to continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary to stave off speculative dollar selling in line with their February 22 currency stability agreement in Paris. Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop as anything like a free-fall. REUTER 
BANK OF TOKYO ISSUES 100 MLN SFR CONVERTIBLE

The Bank of Tokyo Ltd is issuing 100 mln Swiss francs of convertible notes due September 30, 1992, paying an indicated 1-1/4 pct, lead manager Swiss Bank Corp said. Terms will be set on April 9 with payment due April 30. The conversion period is from May 20, 1987 until September 20, 1992. REUTER 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 5,000 to 6,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for May shipment in export business overnight, trade sources said. Reuter 
BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA TO APPLY FOR TOKYO LISTING

<Bank of Nova Scotia> said it would apply for a common share listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The bank, Canada's fourth largest, said it expected its listing to occur later this year. It said Nomura Securities Co Ltd, of Tokyo, would sponsor its application. Reuter 
CANADA, JAPAN TRADING FIRM AGREE TO BOOST TIES

The federal government and the Japanese trading company, C. Itoh and Co Ltd, have signed a letter of understanding to try and boost trade ties between the two countries, the Industry department said. The two parties have agreed to encourage direct Japanese investment in Canada, bilateral trade, and more joint ventures and licensing accords between Canadian and Japanese companies. C. Itoh has just begun a trade mission in Canada to investigate trading opportunities in the aerospace, autoparts electronics and other sectors and will visit some 30 leading companies across Canada. Reuter 
MEXICO RECIEVES FIRST 250 MLN DLRS OF JAPAN LOAN

mexico today received the first 250 mln dlrs of a 500 mln dlr credit from japan's eximbank aimed at financing a mexican oil pipeline project, the finance ministry announced. The funds will be used in the 700 mln dlr pacific petroleum project, which includes the construction of a 267-klm (160.2-mile) pipeline connecting nuevo teapa in the oil-rich state of veracruz and salina cruz, oaxaca on the pacific coast. The project aims to facilitate mexican oil exports to japan and the far east and is expected to be completed in three years. Reuter 
MEXICO RECIEVES FIRST 250 MLN DLRS OF JAPAN LOAN

mexico received the first 250 mln dlrs of a 500 mln dlr credit from japan's eximbank to finance a mexican oil pipeline, the finance ministry announced. The funds will be used in the 700 mln dlr pacific petroleum project, which includes the construction of a 267-km pipeline connecting nuevo teapa in the oil-rich state of veracruz and salina cruz, oaxaca, on the pacific coast. The project aims to facilitate mexican oil exports to japan and the far east and is expected to be completed in three years. REUTER^M 
INTERNATIONAL PACT ON OZONE DAMAGE LIKELY IN 1987

An international protocol to severely limit the use of industrial chemicals which are believed to damage the earth's protective ozone layer could be signed this year, officials and scientists here said. "By the end of this year, we should have an international protocol in place we can all be proud of," U.S. Environmental protection agency officer Bill Long told reporters. The chemicals are chiefly chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which are used in refrigeration and making foam plastics, solvents and aerosols. The earth's upper ozone layer absorbs most of the harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun. The officials and scientists were meeting in Tokyo, ahead of an international conference on the problem later this month in either Vienna, or Geneva, Long said. Robert Watson, a program manager for atmospheric problems at the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration said a protocol should demand an initial freeze on the use of CFCs by industry. This should be followed by a gradual reduction in CFC volume until no CFC gases are released into the air, he said. The U.S. Has already banned use of use CFCs in aerosols and Japan has asked for voluntary restraint, but both still use CFCs in industrial processes. REUTER 
JAPAN MINISTRY ASKS TRUST BANKS TO CUT DLR SALES

The Finance Ministry has asked trust banks to moderate their dollar selling, trust banking sources said. A Ministry official told Reuters earlier this week the Ministry had recently surveyed foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors, but he declined to say whether this was aimed at moderating the dollar sales. Dealers said institutional investors were reluctant to sell dollars aggressively today partly because of the Ministry monitoring. One senior trust bank source said that while sympathizing with the Ministry position, the trust banks had to conduct their foreign exchange operations according to the dictates of the market. A Bank of Japan official said the central bank approved of the survey as long it was not used too forcefully. But another official denied local press reports that the central bank itself had asked investors to moderate their dollar sales. "We are not legally authorized to do that," he said. A Bank of Japan official also said the central bank will renew its call on financial institutions to moderate excessive loans for the purpose of land and securities investment as such investments threaten to cause inflation. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita had previously expressed concern about excessive investment in land and securities resulting partly from eased credit conditions. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO MODERATE DOLLAR SALES - JIJI

The Finance Ministry has asked commercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, JiJi News Agency reported, quoting financial sources. Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for comment. The report also could not be confirmed by several bank dealers. Earlier, Japanese trust banking sources said the Ministry had asked them to moderate their dollar sales. A Ministry official said earlier this week the ministry had recently surveyed currency transactions by investors, but declined to say whether this aimed at reducing their dollar sales. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAID WILLING TO REVISE SALES TAX PLAN

Japanese press reports said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has said he may compromise on his controversial sales tax plan, bowing to widespread opposition even within his own party. The reports said he told a meeting of supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party today the proposed five pct tax should be amended if there was anything wrong with it. Officials were not immediately available for comment. Until now, Nakasone had vowed to press on with the tax as part of his plan to reform Japan's 36-year-old tax system. But most Japanese newspapers and news agencies quoted him as saying today he would not foist the tax on the Japanese people if they hated it. Opposition parties and some industry groups say the tax breaks Nakasone general election campaign promises last July and would discourage consumer spending, needed to meet government pledges to try to stimulate economic growth. Pressure for the tax to be amended or shelved is likely to increase soon, before a first round of local elections due on April 12, political analysts said. Resistance has spread from opposition parties and affected industries to the LDP. Some 36 of Japan's 47 provincial governments have called for the plan to be scrapped or handled carefully, government officials said. Some leading LDP candidates for the local polls have not asked Nakasone to make a campaign speech for them as they fear his presence would weaken their position in the elections. REUTER 
JAPANESE GROUPS URGE DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE

Japan's leading economic organisations urged the Government to prepare drastic pump-priming measures even at the cost of shelving Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's planned tax reforms, officials involved said. Officials of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren) said in a meeting with government officials the Government should issue construction bonds as an emergency measure to prop up the economy. Keidanren suggested that proceeds from sales of stocks in the newly-privatised Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp should also be used to stimulate the economy. Keidanren Chairman Eishiro Saito said the dollar's fall below 150 yen would create huge unemployment and bankruptcies that could shake the foundation of the Japanese economy. The Keidanren meeting coincided with a written request for drastic reflationary measures sent to the Government by the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Both organisations called for stepped-up Bank of Japan intervention to stabilise exchange rates. Chamber head Noboru Gotoh told a press conference the awaited economic package should be powerful enough to push up Japan's Gross National Product (GNP) by about two pct. Gotoh said the Government could cope with the present critical economic condition even if it put off its plan to stop the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. The plan to reduce the fiscal budget is a pillar of Nakasone's fiscal reconstruction program. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING

The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen, dealers said. They were unsure of the amount of the central bank's purchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakening against the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in New York and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
TOSHIBA PRODUCES SUPERCONDUCTIVE WIRE

Officials at Toshiba <TSBA.T> told reporters they have developed a kind of wire which can conduct electricity with no resistance and therefore no loss of power. Although other firms have developed such superconductive materials, Toshiba scientists said their discovery is the first that allows the material to be formed into a pliable wire. Developing a superconducting material that works at room temperature with no resistance is the object of a frenetic worldwide scientific race. The main applications would be in super powerful magnets, small computers of immense power and speed, electric transmission lines which use negligible power, and electric generators which consume no power. Toshiba said that it will probably be five years before it can incorporate superconductors in marketable machines. But problems still have to be surmounted. Present superconductors, including Toshiba's, need to be cooled to very low temperatures before they can pass electricity with no resistance. This requires costly liguid gas coolants. Superconductors developed to date transmit only small currents and cannot conduct alternating current, only direct current, government scientists said. Toshiba, which spent 190.3 billion yen on research and development in the year ended March 31 1986, counts itself among the leading superconductor research companies in Japan, manager of Toshiba's public relations Yuji Wakayama said.. The wires the company uses are a blend of yttrium, barium and copper oxide and can conduct with no resistance at minus 179.5 degrees centigrade. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAID WILLING TO REVISE SALES TAX PLAN

Japanese press reports said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has said he may compromise on his controversial sales tax plan, bowing to widespread opposition even within his own party. The reports said he told a meeting of supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party today the proposed five pct tax should be amended if there was anything wrong with it. Officials were not immediately available for comment. Until now, Nakasone had vowed to press on with the tax as part of his plan to reform Japan's 36-year-old tax system. But most Japanese newspapers and news agencies quoted him as saying today he would not foist the tax on the Japanese people if they hated it. Opposition parties and some industry groups say the tax breaks Nakasone general election campaign promises last July and would discourage consumer spending, needed to meet government pledges to try to stimulate economic growth. Pressure for the tax to be amended or shelved is likely to increase soon, before a first round of local elections due on April 12, political analysts said. Resistance has spread from opposition parties and affected industries to the LDP. Some 36 of Japan's 47 provincial governments have called for the plan to be scrapped or handled carefully, government officials said. Some leading LDP candidates for the local polls have not asked Nakasone to make a campaign speech for them as they fear his presence would weaken their position in the elections. REUTER 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 2,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. They also reported rumors that Mexico may have purchased a sizeable quantity of Canadian flaxseed, although no price or shipment details were available. Reuter 
Tokyo stockmarket index rises 43.13 to record 22,410.85 closing high



CITIC TO ISSUE 30 BILLION YEN BOND IN TOKYO

The China International Trust and Investment Corp (CITIC) will issue a 30 billion yen, 10-year bond on April 23, Daiwa Securities said as lead manager. The samurai bond, to be signed on on April 14, will be the first since an Asian Development Bank issue in February. The coupon is expected to be around five pct, Daiwa said. The April Japanese government 10-year bond coupon has been set at 4.7 pct against five pct on the March bond. REUTER 
TOYO UMPANKI MAY MAKE FORKLIFTS IN EUROPE

<Toyo Umpanki Co Ltd> said it is considering setting up a European unit to produce forklifts, in view of the yen's rise and Japan's self-imposed restriction on forklift exports to the European Community (EC). Belgium, Britain and France are candidates for the plant. The company is negotiating with unspecified European makers and a decision is expected in August, a spokesman said. Toyo currently exports 40 pct of its annual production of 14,000 to 15,000 units. Some 40 pct of exports go to the EC. Overall Japanese forklift exports in calendar 1986 fell to 14,005 from 15,991 a year earlier. REUTER 
JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS

Japan should increase foreign access to its farm products market, while encouraging further development of domestic agriculture, a government report said. The white paper on agriculture for the year ended March 31 said active participation in writing world farm trade rules at the next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks will help prepare Japan to improve access. Agriculture Ministry sources said the paper marked an easing in Japan's tough position on agricultural imports which stressed the need for strict controls on some products to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Japan now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs, down from 61 pct some 20 years ago, official figures show. The paper said Japanese agriculture has been slow to improve productivity and demand/supply imbalances. The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainly responsible for higher domestic prices, it said. The strong yen has meant lower input material prices but has also resulted in higher agricultural imports which has worsened working conditions among part-time farmers, the paper said. This could make it difficult to improve the industry's structure, the paper said. To solve these problems and to reduce farm product prices to more reasonable levels, Japan should try to restructure the the agricultural sector to improve productivity and make it self-supporting, it said. REUTER 
SUZUKI RECALLS 63,000 CARS

Suzuki Motor Co Ltd <SZMT> said it is recalling about 63,000 of its compact 1,300-cc SA-413 cars. The cars, produced between May 1984 and January 1987, need modifications because insufficient space between the fuel tube and the cooling fan switching coupler could cause them to catch fire under ordinary driving conditions, the spokesman said. Some 53,100 of the cars affected were sold abroad. REUTER 
CITIBANK AND TOKYO SOGO SIGN RETAIL BANKING ACCORD

<Citibank NA> and <Tokyo Sogo Bank Ltd>, the largest mutual loan and savings bank in the Tokyo area, have signed an agreement to cooperate on retail banking, a Tokyo Sogo spokesman said. Citibank, a subsidiary of Citicorp <CCI>, plans to start retail banking in Japan and is expected to provide Tokyo Sogo with help in this area, he told Reuters. The two banks will exchange customer information and cooperate on credit card and foreign exchange business, he said. REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA TO PAY MORE FOR JAPANESE ETHYLENE

South Korea will pay about 20 pct more for ethylene imported from Japan in the second quarter of the year because increased plastic production in both countries has boosted demand and tightened supplies, chemical industry sources said. South Korea has agreed to pay Japanese trading houses just over 400 dlrs C and F per tonne, up from an average of 350 dlrs in the first quarter and throughout 1986, they said. South Korean demand for imported ethylene this month has risen to 17,000 tonnes from 10,000 last month, and the country may face difficulties covering the extra volume, they said. <Korea Petrochemical Industries Corp>, a producer of high density polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene, will more than double its ethylene requirements to 9,000 tonnes a month from 4,000 when it completes a plant expansion at the end of this month, the sources said. <Honan Ethylene Corp's> import requirements have risen to 8,000 tonnes a month from 6,000 tonnes last year to meet strong demand from <Honan Petrochemical Co>, which makes HDPE and ethylene glycol, and <Hangyang Chemical>, which produces low-density polyethylene and vinyl chloride monomer, they said. But Japan's ethylene plants are already operating at almost full capacity of 4.5 mln tonnes a year just to fulfill domestic demand, the sources said. "And even if Japan had the additional ethylene, there is a logistical problem of finding extra appropriate-sized vessels to ship it to Korea," said one trading house source. Japanese trading companies are looking to alternative sources to supply South Korea's needs, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Mexico, they said. But long-haul voyages are expensive as the product has to be shipped at a temperature of minus 103 degrees centigrade to keep it in a liquid form, they said. Japan has no plans to invest further in the ethylene industry in order to cope with the additional demand, despite rising prices, trading house sources said. South Korea has two projects in hand which will increase its ethylene production capacity by 500,000 tonnes a year by the end of 1989, so the strong demand surge for imports is only a medium-term trend, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES - DEALERS

The Finance Ministry has asked Japanese commercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, bank dealers said. They said the Ministry had telephoned city and long-term banks earlier this week to make the request. One dealer said this was the first time the Ministry had made such a request to commercial banks. Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediate comment. Dealers said the Ministry has already asked institutional investors to reduce their sales of the dollar. REUTER 
JAL SAYS MAJOR DEFECT FOUND IN BOEING PLANE

Japan Air Lines ordered checks on its fleet of Boeing Co. <BA> 747-SR jumbo jets after a major defect was found in one of them last month, an airline spokesman said. Inspectors running a routine check found that one of three diagonal braces attaching an engine to the wing had snapped due to metal fatigue, he said. He described the defect as "major" but said it was the first time such a fault had been found in the JAL fleet. He said the part was sent to Boeing for examination but nothing had been heard from them yet. A Boeing spokesman was not immediately available for comment. JAL's entire fleet of eleven 747-SRs had been inspected but no similar defect was found, the airline spokesman said. Reuter 
JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS

Japan should increase foreign access to its farm products market, while encouraging further development of domestic agriculture, a government report said. The white paper on agriculture for the year ended March 31 said active participation in writing world farm trade rules at the next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks will help prepare Japan to improve access. Agriculture Ministry sources said the paper marked an easing in Japan's tough position on agricultural imports which stressed the need for strict controls on some products to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Japan now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs, down from 61 pct some 20 years ago, official figures show. The paper said Japanese agriculture has been slow to improve productivity and demand/supply imbalances. The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainly responsible for higher domestic prices, it said. The strong yen has meant lower input material prices but has also resulted in higher agricultural imports which has worsened working conditions among part-time farmers, the paper said. This could make it difficult to improve the industry's structure, the paper said. To solve these problems and to reduce farm product prices to more reasonable levels, Japan should try to restructure the the agricultural sector to improve productivity and make it self-supporting, it said. Reuter 
JAPANESE BANKS EXPAND HONG KONG PRESENCE

At a time when Britain is threatening to revoke the license of Japanese banks in retaliation for restrictive trade practices, Hong Kong is rolling out the welcome mat to Japan. The British colony last week issued a banking licence to the Bank of Fukuoka Ltd, making it the 24th Japanese bank here. Japan has the largest banking contingent in Hong Kong, followed by the U.S. With 22 banks. Eleven Japanese banks have representative offices here and Japanese institutions operate 34 deposit-taking companies (DTCs). Assistant banking commissioner K.K Wong told Reuters: "There are no special favours towards the Japanese...But because of Japan's strong economy and currency, they easily meet our requirement on assets (14 billion U.S. Dlrs)." The Japanese control the largest share of assets of the financial institutions here but incorporated elsewhere, with 980.5 billion H.K. Dlrs at end-1986, or 57.5 pct of the total. "Hong Kong authorities welcome Japanese banks," said Haruo Kimura, assistant general manager of the Bank of Tokyo. "But the U.S. And Britain are unhappy with the slow liberalisation of the Tokyo financial market." Japanese bankers said Hong Kong offers good business opportunities, especially in China trade, to Japanese banks who are following their clients' international expansion. "As their clients become more international, they have to keep up and follow them," said Yutaka Toda, Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank's general manager here. "We can have access to local traders and regional corporations," said Bank of Tokyo's Kimura. "We can also pick up business with China." Bankers said more Japanese banks are on the way. An influx of Japanese banks began in the late 1970s when the government lifted a moratorium on new licences. But newcomers are allowed one branch each and only the Bank of Tokyo, Sanwa Bank and Sumitomo Bank have more than one branch. Because of this limitation, Japanese banks have mostly concentrated on wholesale business. "It is very difficult to compete with those giants such as the Hongkong Bank and the Bank of China," said Kimura of the Bank of Tokyo. Bank of Tokyo has the largest Japanese bank network here with seven branches, while Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp and the Bank of China groups each have hundreds of branches. To broaden their client and deposit base, some Japanese banks have taken equity in local banks. The latest such move was Dai-Ichi Kangyo's increase of its stake in Chekiang First Bank last year to 95 pct from 33 pct. Tokai Bank, Fuji Bank and Mitsubishi Bank also have interests in small local banks. But Mitsubishi, not content with its single-branch licence and a 25 pct stake in the small Liu Chong Hing Bank, bought Mercantile Bank Ltd's multi-branch licence early this year. "We will open one more branch in (Hong Kong's district of) Kowloon soon, to better serve our clients on the other side of the harbour," said Mitsubishi Bank general manager Takeshi Tange. Their weakness in the retail market forces Japanese banks to rely on the interbank market for funding. Government data show that despite their large share of total assets, Japanese banks had only 54.4 billion dlrs in deposits at end-1986, or 17.1 pct of deposits of banks in Hong Kong incorporated elsewhere. "Most Japanese banks' international lendings in the region are booked in Hong Kong," said a Japanese banker who declined to be named. He said it is mainly for tax reasons, adding that assets such as loans booked in Hong Kong are not subject to Japanese tax. Japanese banks are barred by the Tokyo government from issuing Eurobonds, but their Hong Kong subsidiaries can tap the Euromarket and lend the funds to the parent. Bankers said this role could be undermined by a five pct capital adequacy ratio that goes into effect next year, requiring many DTC's to increase their capital. Many Japanese banks are seeking special treatment for their largely offshore operations or a different risk calculation for their assets. "I don't think this will stop them from coming here," said a banker. "But it may mean they have to conduct some of their offshore funding operations elsewhere." REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - TOKYO HARD ON FOREIGN TRADERS

Overseas securities firms are spending millions of dollars to set up operations in Tokyo, but many will end up losing money, industry sources said. For banks and securities firms eager to establish themselves as international players, building a presence in Japan has become an imperative. Thirty-six are already licensed to trade securities on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the world's second largest. More than 50 are expected by year-end. But, as deregulation erodes brokers' profits and the global share-buying spree is predicted to subside, only those securities traders with first-class financial muscle will survive, the sources said. "There will be foreigners' fallout. They come in here with too glib ideas about how they can survive," said David Miller, director and general manager of Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd's Tokyo branch. Despite soaring share prices, sharp falls in commissions on stock transactions have hurt even brokerages that came to Tokyo early. "Japanese equities are no longer a very profitable business. The margins are nothing like they were two or three years ago. Things are not as rosy as they may seem," Miller said. Publicly reported earnings of foreign securities houses in Japan for the half-year ended September 30, 1986, showed Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd on top with profits of 1.7 billion yen. Most other firms reported hefty gains over the year before. But industry sources say the figures do not fully reveal the costs of running an international brokerage in the world's most expensive city. Salary packages with free housing for novice analysts routinely run more than 100,000 dlrs a year. Miller, whose firm had earnings of 1.4 billion yen for the half-year to September 1986, said costs for an operation strong enough to endure are 10 to 15 mln dlrs a year. "I'd be surprised if more than two or three were making money if they honestly accounted for their costs," he said. To bring commissions closer to world rates, the Finance Ministry slashed fixed brokerage fees last year, especially on large-lot deals. In a few years, all rates may be negotiated as they are in New York and London, industry sources said. Since last October's Big Bang deregulation of London's financial markets, at least half the equity trading deals there have generated no commission income at all. Stockbroking firms are unlikely to make money until some are forced out of business, analysts said. The first foreign firms to set up here, especially the six admitted as members in February 1986, have an advantage over the latecomers, they said. The six are <Merrill Lynch Japan Inc>, <Goldman Sachs International Corp>, <Morgan Stanley International Inc>, <Vickers Da Costa Ltd>, <Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd> and <S.G. Warburg and Co (Japan) Ltd>. The memberships, which cost about five mln dlrs, allow firms to execute their own trades and, unlike houses with branch status, avoid paying away 27 pct of their commissions to have member firms place trades. Members can also communicate instantly with the exchange floor, a vital source of information in a market that tends to follow the leader. Sources said seven to 10 more seats on the exchange are likely to open up sometime in 1988. For non-member firms, wrestling away market share from tenacious Japanese and foreign firms is costly and intangibles sometimes prove even more important than exchange membership. "Your name is better known if you're a member of the right club," Miller said. "It's easier to hire ... New people." To inaugurate its Japan operation, <SBCI Securities (Asia) Ltd> flew out the Basel Ballet last January for receptions in Tokyo and Osaka. The firm, 50 pct owned by <Swiss Bank Corp>, gave guests gifts of Swiss chocolates and Swatch watches. "It's expensive, but a party like that is a token of the serious way we regard our development in Tokyo," SBCI's Tokyo branch manager Gregory Shenkman said. To establish its position quickly, SBCI hired a 26-strong research unit from <W.I. Carr (Overseas) Ltd>'s Tokyo office. "I was very lucky," Shenkman said. "I was anticipating a considerable struggle to organically develop a research team. "I am not particularly optimistic for the prospects in the Japanese equity market for continental European banks who have little experience in equities outside their domestic equity market," he said. But the prospect of closing down operations may be worse. "One would be ill-advised to open here and close, and then decide to open again two or three years later. I'm not sure the Japansese community would respond well to that sort of attitude," he said. REUTER 
GERMAN, JAPANESE FIRMS WORK ON WASTE PLANT

Deutsche Babcock AG <DBCG.F> said it agreed to cooperate with BASF AG <BASF.F> and the Japanese firm Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd <KAWH.T>, KHI, in the field of technology designed to protect the environment. Deutsche Babcock Anlagen AG would work with BASF to develop plants which would treat and burn industrial waste. Another Babcock subsidary, Vereinigte Kesselwerke AG, VKW, had struck an accord with KHI which would later be transformed into a licencing agreement. The agreement with KHI involves construction and marketing by the Japanese company of an environmentally-safe system developed by VKW for burners in power station boilers, Deutsche Babcock said. No financial details of the cooperation were released. REUTER 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 4,000 to 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MIYAZAWA SEES BIG NATIONS REAFFIRMING PARIS PACT

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary committee he expects major nations to reafffirm the currency pact they struck in Paris when they meet this week in Washington, political sources said. The Minister also was quoted as saying he expects major nations to take coordinated action to ensure exchange rate stability. Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediate comment. In Paris on February 22, six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - pledged to cooperate to hold their currencies stable. REUTER 
JAPAN MAKES SEAMLESS-PIPE DEALS WITH CHINA, USSR

Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T> said it and four other firms jointly concluded negotiations to export a total of over 400,000 tonnes of seamless pipes in the six months to end-September to China and the Soviet Union. Export prices for that period for both countries were set 100 to 150 yen per tonne higher than previous contracted prices due to the yen's gains against the dollar, it said. Contracted export volume for China is likely to be over 200,000 tonnes against 350,000 for Oct 1986-March 1987, and 420,000 for April-Sept 1986, and for the Soviet Union over 200,000 tonnes. No direct Soviet comparison was available. REUTER 
OIL PRICES SEEN HOLDING STEADY IN SECOND QUARTER

Japanese oil traders generally expect oil prices to remain steady through June, when the next Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' (Opec) meeting is scheduled to take place. Prices have kept to a narrow trading range for more than a month, despite coming under considerable pressure in February as Japanese oil companies holding high oil stocks strongly resist paying official prices, trade sources said. Despite these attempts, spot crude rose steadily to stabilize around OPEC's 18 dlr a barrel target, they said. Spot prices fell more than two dlrs during the month, mainly on market assumptions Opec was producing more than its 15.8 mln barrel a day (bpd) self-imposed ceiling and members would submit to pressure to discount prices, oil traders said. However, Opec's discipline in holding its price and output targets eventually forced many of the buyers back, they said. Countries such as Qatar, Iran and Iraq refused to bend to demands for lower prices in spite of threats of non-lifting from Japanese buyers. The solidarity of Opec encouraged Qatar to charter vessels to store its production rather than cut its prices, they said. Opec's March production was 14.6 mln bpd, 1.2 mln below its ceiling, with Saudi Arabia's output just below 3.0 mln bpd compared to its Opec quota of 4.133 mln bpd, the Middle East Economic Survey estimated. "Of course there was a little cheating but not enough to destroy the market," an oil trader in Tokyo said. Opec crudes have been appearing on the spot market at discounted prices through barter deals and the swapping of Middle East grades for North Sea cargoes, but these trades have not generated sufficient volume to depress the market, he said. The current spot values of Middle East grades are only 20 to 25 cts below official prices, so resistance to buying crude under term contracts in the second quarter is likely to be weaker, traders said. Indonesia's Minister of Energy and Mines Subroto said today OPEC faces the choice of either maintaining present output volume at 15.8 mln bpd and seeing prices increase slightly, or raising the production ceiling so members can produce more in the third and fourth quarters of 1987. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS TO URGE GOVERNMENT TO SPUR ECONOMY

A top Japanese businessman said the country's four largest economic organizations will soon present to the government a set of proposals to expand domestic demand. Eishiro Saito, Chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), told a news conference the government should draw up a package of economic measures totalling more than 5,000 billion yen. Saito said the government's package should include plans to remove residual import restrictions on agricultural products and to lift tariffs on industrial products. Leading industrialised countries should also step up concerted market intervention to stabilize exchange rates, Saito said. The measures will be presented to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone as a joint proposal of Keidanren, the Japan Federation of Employers' Association, the Japan Committee for Economic Development and the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Saito said Japan should stop paying only lip service to its pledges to open its markets. The proposed measures should be undertaken by increased fiscal spending, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON

The Bank of Japan intervened in early afternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against active selling by institutional investors and speculative selling by overseas operators, dealers said. The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen in morning trade. The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading began in the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealers said. REUTER 
japan ruling party seeks over 5,000 billion yen supplementary budget-party official



JAPAN RULING PARTY SEEKS BIG SUPPLEMENTARY BUDGET

The ruling Liberal Democratic Party has drawn up the guidelines of an economic package including a supplementary budget of more than 5,000 billion yen, a senior party official said. It also urged the government to concentrate in the first half of the current fiscal year which began on April 1 a record proportion of the year's public works spending, he said. The LDP also suggested the government review the ceiling on budgetary requests for investment in public works projects presented by individual ministries, he added. But the LDP official said the government should not abandon its fiscal reform target of ending the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. These measures should be treated as an emergency, partly because of the urgent need for Japan to redress its external trade imbalance with the U.S., He said. The guidelines will be explained to the U.S. This week when Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa visits Washington for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting, he added. The official, the LDP Policy Affairs Research Council's Chairman Masayoshi Ito, told a press conference the proposed supplementary budget will probably be compiled no earlier than August but before November. The guideline will be the basis for a more detailed reflationary plan to be worked out by the LDP before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29 for talks with President Reagan, Ito said. The full government-endorsed economic package is expected to be announced in late May. The LDP expects public works spending in the first 1987/88 half to account for more than 80 pct of what was originally incorporated in the fiscal 1987 budget, Ito said. The previous record for the rate was 77.5 pct in 1986/87. Ito said revenue sources for the additional pump-priming measures should include the issue of construction bonds and the use of part of the proceeds from sales of the privatized Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp stocks. An LDP statement said the government should use the additional budget mainly to encourage housing construction and to revitalize regional economies hit hard by the yen's rise. REUTER 
JAPAN AUCTIONS 280 BILLION YEN OF FOUR-YEAR NOTES

The Finance Ministry auctioned 280 billion yen of four-year government notes, the first auction of fiscal 1987 which started on April 1. The coupon was set at 3.7 pct, a record low for any government note and below the 3.8 pct set on the last two-year notes, auctioned in February. Today's issue was the first for four-year notes since last May, which produced an average price of 99.79, average yield of 4.561 pct and a coupon of 4.5 pct, the Ministry said. The auction results will be announced tomorrow afternoon. REUTER 
Tokyo stock market index rises 198.54 to record closing high of 22,784.65



JAPAN'S LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23

Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago. The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. REUTER 
JAPAN'S LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23

Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago. The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,300 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total, 400 billion yen will yield 3.8502 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 41-day repurchase accord maturing on May 19. Another 400 billion yen will yield 3.7991 pct in a 20-day repurchase pact maturing on April 28, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8125 pct one-month, and 3.7500 pct three-week commercial bill discount rates today. Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to government tax allocations to local governments and public entities. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at about 4,300 billion yen, they said. REUTER 
PAKISTAN FIRM RAISES THREE BILLION YEN IN JAPAN

The National Development Finance Corp of Pakistan has raised three billion yen through private placement, arranger Daiwa Securities Co Ltd said. The seven year "Shibosai" issue in the Tokyo domestic market carries interest at 6.9 pct. No other details were available. REUTER 
CHRYSLER CANADA IMPORTS THAI-MADE MITSUBISHI CARS

<Chrysler Canada Ltd> said it signed an agreement to import 100,000 Mitsubishi small cars from <MMC Sittipol Co Ltd> of Thailand between 1988 and 1993. Chrysler Canada, a subsidiary of Chrysler Motors Corp <C> of the U.S., Will market the two and four-door cars in Canada under the Dodge-Colt brand. The cars will be Thailand's first car exports. MMC Sittipol is a Thai-Japanese joint venture in which Mitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> of Japan holds an estimated 47 pct stake. Its Thai partners are <Sittipol Motor Co> and <United Development Motor Industries Co Ltd>. Officials of MMC Sittipol said Chrysler Canada currently buys the same Dodge-Colt models from Japan where the strong yen has sharply increased their production costs. They said Chrysler will from next year import the same cars from Japan and Thailand which has a lower labour cost advantage. The officials said Mitsubishi's decision to move its production to Thailand also stemmed from the fact that Japan is facing auto export quota restrictions to the Canadian market. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SHORTLY AFTER TOKYO OPENS

The Bank of Japan bought a small amount of dollars at around 145.95 yen shortly after the Tokyo market opened, dealers said. But the dollar then fell on speculative selling by trading houses, they said. The dollar had opened here at 145.95 yen against 145.85/90 yen in New York and 146.00 yen at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,300 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total, 400 billion yen will yield 3.8502 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 41-day repurchase accord maturing on May 19. Another 400 billion yen will yield 3.7991 pct in a 20-day repurchase pact maturing on April 28, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8125 pct one-month, and 3.7500 pct three-week commercial bill discount rates today. Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to government tax allocations to local governments and public entities. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at about 4,300 billion yen, they said. REUTER 
STRONG QUAKE JOLTS CENTRAL JAPAN

A strong earthquake registering 6.9 on the open-ended Richter scale jolted central and northern Japan, the Meteorological Agency said, but there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage. An agency statement estimated the epicentre of the quake, which struck at 9:40 A.M. (0040 GMT), as being under the sea off Fukushima prefecture, some 240 km north of Tokyo. On March 18, a quake also registering 6.9 on the Richter scale hit south-west Japan, killing two people. Earthquakes of force six on the Richter scale are capable of causing widespread, heavy damage in a populated area. The agency issued, but soon cancelled, a tidal-wave warning for the Pacific coastline of central and northern Japan. The Shinkansen bullet train linking Tokyo and northern Morioka stopped running. Services will be suspended for several hours while workers check the tracks, railway officials told Reuters. A spokesman for Fukushima police told Reuters they had not received any damage reports, even from the coastal town of Onahama, which registered the maximum intensity. He described the shaking as very strong. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON

The Bank of Japan intervened in early afternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against active selling by institutional investors and speculative selling by overseas operators, dealers said. The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen in morning trade. The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading began in the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealers said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 224 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 224 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 850 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 800 mln. The central bank bought bank bills comprising 27 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 21 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 171 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. It also purchased three mln stg of treasury bills and two mln stg of local authority bills in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 
STRONG QUAKE JOLTS CENTRAL JAPAN

A strong earthquake registering 6.9 on the open-ended Richter scale jolted central and northern Japan, the Meteorological Agency said, but there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage. An agency statement estimated the epicentre of the quake, which struck at 0940 hrs (0040 GMT), as being under the sea off Fukushima prefecture, some 240 km north of Tokyo. On March 18, a quake also registering 6.9 on the Richter scale hit southwest Japan, killing two people. Earthquakes of force six on the Richter scale are capable of causing widespread, heavy damage in a populated area. The agency issued, but soon cancelled, a tidal-wave warning for the Pacific coastline of central and northern Japan. The Shinkansen bullet train linking Tokyo and northern Morioka stopped running. Services will be suspended for several hours while workers check the tracks, railway officials told Reuters. A spokesman for Fukushima police told Reuters they had not received any damage reports, even from the coastal town of Onahama, which registered the maximum intensity. He described the shaking as very strong. Reuter 
JAPAN RULING PARTY SEEKS BIG SUPPLEMENT BUDGET

The ruling Liberal Democratic Party has drawn up the guidelines of an economic package including a supplementary budget of more than 5,000 billion yen, a senior party official said. The official, the LDP Policy Affairs Research Council's Chairman Masayoshi Ito, told a press conference the proposed supplementary budget will probably be compiled no earlier than August but before November. It also urges the government to concentrate in the first half of the current fiscal year which began on April 1 a record proportion of the year's public works spending. The guidelines will be explained to the U.S. this week when Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa visits Washington for the meetings with the IMF and G-7 ministers, Ito added. The LDP suggested the government review the ceiling on budgetary requests for investment in public works projects presented by individual ministries, Ito said. But the LDP official said the government should not abandon its fiscal reform target of ending the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. These measures should be treated as an emergency, partly because of the urgent need for Japan to redress its external trade imbalance with the U.S., He said. The guideline will be the basis for a more detailed reflationary plan to be worked out by the LDP before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29 for talks with President Reagan, Ito said. The full government-endorsed economic package is expected to be announced in late May. The LDP expects public works spending in the first 1987/88 half to account for more than 80 pct of what was originally incorporated in the fiscal 1987 budget, Ito said. The previous record for the rate was 77.5 pct in 1986/87. Ito said revenue sources for the additional pump-priming measures should include the issue of construction bonds and the use of part of the proceeds from sales of the privatized Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp stocks. An LDP statement said the government should use the additional budget mainly to encourage housing construction and to revitalize regional economies hit hard by the yen's rise. Reuter 
MIYAZAWA LEAVES HOTEL FOR MEETING WITH BAKER AT TREASURY, JAPANESE OFFICIALS SAY



JAPAN SEEKS TO STRENGTHEN PARIS ACCORD ON CURRENCIES, JAPANESE OFFICIALS SAY



CURRENCY TARGET ZONES WILL NOT BE DISCUSSED AT G-7 MEETING, JAPANESE OFFICIALS SAY



Bank of Japan buys dollars shortly after opening at around 145.30 yen -- dealers



BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING

The Bank of Japan bought a small amount of dollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealers said. The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading house sold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar was also supported by a major electrical consumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer at around 145.25 yen, they added. The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in New York and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
JAPAN RUBBER STOCKS FALL IN MARCH

Japan's rubber stocks fell to 44,980 tonnes in March from 46,198 in February and from 53,784 in March 1986, the Japan Rubber Trade Association said. The stocks (in tonnes), with February and year-earlier comparisons, were - March 87 Feb 87 March 86 Crude Rubber 41,536 42,094 49,551 Synthetic 3,334 3,978 4,044 Latex 110 126 189 REUTER 
NIPPON MINING LOWERS COPPER PRICE

Nippon Mining Co Ltd said it lowered its selling price for electrolytic copper by 10,000 yen per tonne to 260,000, effective immediately. REUTER 
JAPAN'S LDP URGES MORE IMPORTS OF 12 FARM ITEMS

The ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) has proposed expanding imports of 12 farm products named in a U.S. Complaint against Japan to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade last year, an LDP official said. The products include fruit juices, purees and pulp, some tomato products, peanuts, prepared beef products and beans. The proposal will be used as the basis for a more detailed LDP economic package to cut the trade surplus with the U.S. The party is expected to formalise the package before April 19, when LDP General Council Chairman Shintaro Abe visits Washington. REUTER 
SHARP CORP <SHRP.T> TO SET UP PLANT IN THAILAND

Sharp Corp will set up a 100 pct-owned subsidiary in Thailand to make microwave ovens and refrigerators for export to the U.S. And western Europe, a company spokesman said. The company, to be named <Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd>, will be capitalised at 2.1 billion yen and start operations in October, he told Reuters. Sharp hopes the subsidiary, which will use parts from Japan and southeast Asia, will eventually produce other electric appliances, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO REVISE LONG-TERM ENERGY DEMAND DOWNWARDS

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) will revise its long-term energy supply/demand outlook by August to meet a forecast downtrend in Japanese energy demand, ministry officials said. MITI is expected to lower the projection for primary energy supplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres (kl) from 600 mln, they said. The decision follows the emergence of structural changes in Japanese industry following the rise in the value of the yen and a decline in domestic electric power demand. MITI is planning to work out a revised energy supply/demand outlook through deliberations of committee meetings of the Agency of Natural Resources and Energy, the officials said. They said MITI will also review the breakdown of energy supply sources, including oil, nuclear, coal and natural gas. Nuclear energy provided the bulk of Japan's electric power in the fiscal year ended March 31, supplying an estimated 27 pct on a kilowatt/hour basis, followed by oil (23 pct) and liquefied natural gas (21 pct), they noted. REUTER 
NISSAN MAY SUPPLY PARTS TO MEXICAN FORD, CHRYSLER

Nissan Motor Co Ltd <NSAN.T> is negotiating the supply of car components to Mexican units of Ford Motor Co <F> and Chrysler Corp <C>, a Nissan spokeswoman said. <Nissan Mexicana SA de CV> is owned 96.4 pct by Nissan and 3.6 pct by Marubeni Corp <MART.T>. It expects to win orders for precision casting parts for engines, and aluminium cases for automatic transmissions. These will supply output of 70,000 mid-size cars a year at Chrysler's Mexican unit, the spokeswoman said. Nissan is negotiating a similar deal to supply Ford's Mexican unit with precision casting parts for car engines, the spokeswoman said, without providing further details. The company is expected to reach agreements with both U.S. Car makers sometime this year, she said. Nissan Mexicana will invest about 400 mln yen to improve production facilities after the agreements are signed, she said. REUTER 
JAPANESE AUTOMAKERS TURN TO FOUR-WHEEL STEERING

Major Japanese automakers are gearing up to equip sporty models with four-wheel steering, a feature that could become standard on high-grade cars in the future, automotive industry sources said. Two companies are ready to market such cars soon, they said. Honda Motor Co Ltd will sell its Prelude with four-wheel steering from this Friday, and Mazda Motor Corp officials say a model with the new steering will be out by mid-year. Mazda aims to ship the cars overseas before year-end but the decision will depend on initial consumer reaction. Nissan Motor Co Ltd has offered a less sophisticated four-wheel steering system on its Skyline since August 1985. Toyota Motor Corp has exhibited its developments in the field at a recent motor show and Mitsubishi Motors Corp said it will use the system in the near future. Though major U.S. And European automakers have also researched and tested the four-wheel system, they say they are waiting to see consumer response to the Japanese cars and for further improvements in safety and costs. Four-wheel steering allows drivers to easily manoeuvre into parking spaces and gives more control on sharp turns. Mazda officials believe the new steering will improve safety. "At extremes, four-wheel steering gives a driver more control," said one official. "On slippery surfaces or at high speeds, the system reduces unnecessary movement of the vehicle." While acknowledging the added vehicle stability, a Honda engineer said: "This invention is not intended to improve safety, but is aimed at allowing everyone to drive easily." Mazda's electronic steering system tells the back wheels to turn in the opposite direction from the front wheels at slow speeds but in the same direction at high speeds. Honda's system, which is mechanical, is similar but the direction of the rear wheels is determined by the angle of the front wheels. With Nissan's system the rear wheels move only parallel to the front. Automakers say professional drivers who have tested the four-wheel steering say it greatly improves handling. An official with one U.S. Vehicle manufacturer said four-wheel steering is a technical improvement, but it is uncertain whether it will translate into higher sales or profits. "All automakers are interested in something new," he said. "If it becomes a predominant factor, everyone will want to follow." The official said four-wheel steering is partly a gimmick to sell cars. "It's a benefit of a secondary nature compared with devices for fuel economy or emission control." General Motors Corp has developed a four-wheel steering system, but is unlikely to market it within the next five years, Y. Hojoh, engineer with the Japan branch of General Motors Overseas Corp, said. GM must consider the costs to the consumer, he added. The industry sources said the additional cost of the system in Japan would probably make little difference to the consumer as it would be added to already high-priced models. REUTER 
JAPANESE ECONOMIC PACKAGE SEEN AS MAJOR CHANGE

The economic package unveiled yesterday by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) marks the start of a major shift away from the policies of the past, private economists and government officials said. "A big step forward has been taken," said Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd senior economist Susumu Taketomi. The package, seen as a response to mounting overseas pressure to boost the sagging Japanese economy, calls for a supplementary budget of more than 5,000 billion yen later this year, plus increased imports. Although the measures must still gain the approval of the Finance Ministry, economists said the government will find it too difficult to alter the measures significantly once they have gained domestic and overseas backing. "At last, the LDP and the Ministry of Finance are turning a corner," said Sumitomo Bank Ltd's chief economist Masahiko Koido. For the past five years the government has adhered to a tight fiscal policy in its drive to stop issuing deficit financing bonds in 1990. To meet that goal, spending departments are required to submit annual budgets for current expenditure 10 pct below the previous year and investment five pct below. Masayoshi Ito, chairman of the LDP's policy affairs council, said yesterday the government must stick to its 1990 fiscal reform target, but should review the ceiling it places on public works spending. Even some Finance Ministry officials privately acknowledge that policy changes might be needed, including easing the government's iron grip on spending. Economists said the government could meet its 1990 target and also increase spending by using money it got from the sale of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp shares and by taking advantage of lower than expected interest rates on its debt. Officially, the Finance Ministry is adhering to its tight stance but some signs of change have appeared. "We do not have any intention of abandoning our objective to restore fiscal balance," a Finance Ministry spokesman said. He said so far the ministry had tried to achieve two goals simultaneously. These were reforming the government's fiscal position and stimulating domestic demand. But the Finance Ministry spokesman added, "In looking at the current situation of the economy and the relationship between Japan and the United States, we feel we have to place more emphasis on stimulating demand." Economists predict battles within the government over the coming months as the Finance Ministry fights to ensure the cracks in its policy do not lead to a complete breakdown of fiscal discipline. "The Ministry is afraid that once there is a small hole in the dike, it will lead to a flood," Industrial Bank's Taketomi said. But Taketomi said the ministry, provided it has a device in place to check excess spending for political reasons, is likely to give the go-ahead to a shift in policy. "This seems to mark the first step toward a more active fiscal policy in response to requests from the international community," he said. Sumitomo's Koido said if the government quickly implements the LDP's 5,000 billion yen package, economic growth in the 1987/88 year ending next March 31 could be around three pct, His current forecast of 2.2 pct growth assumes a supplementary budget of around 1,000 billion yen. REUTER 
THAI ZINC EXPORTS FALL IN MARCH

Thai zinc ingot exports fell to 882 tonnes in March from 1,764 in February and 3,008 in March 1986, the Mineral Resources Department said. A spokesman for Padaeng Industry Co Ltd, the country's sole exporter, attributed the decline to the company's lower stocks, which averaged 5,000 tonnes in the first quarter against 16,000 tonnes in late 1985 when it began exporting. The department said major buyers included China, Japan, the Philippines, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. Thailand exported 4,842 tonnes of zinc ingots during the first quarter, down from 14,937 a year ago. REUTER 
JAPAN TO HOLD FORMAL FINANCIAL TALKS WITH FRANCE

The Japanese Finance Ministry said it plans to hold formal financial talks with France on April 17 in Tokyo, the second such meeting after a first session in May last year. The agenda has not yet been decided. The Japanese side will be headed by Toyoo Gyohten, Vice Finance Minister for International Affairs, while the French delegation will include Daniel Lebegue, Director General of the Treasury. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN HAS NO COMMENT ON YEN BOND REPORT

A Bank of Japan spokesman declined to comment on a press report that the central bank had decided to conduct closer scrutiny of the operations of financial institutions in the bond market. The JIJI Press news agency had quoted Bank of Japan sources as telling Japanese reporters the bank was deeply concerned over potential risk in yen bond trading because the market had risen too fast. However, JIJI quoted the sources as saying, the central bank would not take such actions as guiding interest rates higher. JIJI quoted the sources as saying that current bond market yields are similar to short-term interest rates due to excessive speculative operations. This was attributable to heavy redemptions of government bonds and unclear prospects for the dollar, which has sent many foreign bond market participants to the domestic market, the sources were quoted as saying. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING

The Bank of Japan bought a small amount of dollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealers said. The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading house sold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar was also supported by a major electrical consumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer at around 145.25 yen, they added. The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in New York and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
PHILADELPHIA SEES CURRENCY OPTIONS TRADE IN ASIA

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange will soon open offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo to help boost Far Eastern participation in foreign currency options before it starts evening trading in four or five months time, exchange president Nicholas Giordano told reporters. Japanese institutions are already major players in foreign currency options traded in Philadelphia, using subsidiaries or agents to trade during the current daytime session. REUTER 
JAPAN DIVISION OF LABOUR WITH ASIA URGED

Japan should promote division of labour with its Asian neighbours, especially the newly industrialized countries, to help achieve more balanced world economic growth, the Bank of Japan said in a report. Instead of trying to produce everything by itself, Japan should open up its market further to imports, transfer manufacturing facilities abroad and increase technology transfer with those nations, the bank said in its monthly report. Japan should not see industrializing Asian nations as mere competitors in its overseas and domestic markets but as countries that can contribute to the region's prosperity. The bank said trade relations between Japan and the Asian neighbouring countries have so far been vertical, meaning that Japan imports primary goods from those countries and exports manufactured goods to them. But this has resulted in an increase in their trade deficits with Japan while some newly industrialized Asian nations have accumulated trade surpluses with countries like the United States. REUTER 
JAL BOEING CRASH CAUSED BY FAULTY REPAIRS-REPORT

Faulty repair work by The Boeing Company <BA.N> was a contributary cause to a Japan Air Lines Co Ltd <JAPN.Y> 747 crash on August 12, 1985, that killed 520 people, the final draft of a Ministry of Transport report says. There were only four survivors when the aircraft crashed into a mountain north of Tokyo. The report said inadequate inspection of the aircraft by Japanese inspectors after the repairs was another factor in the crash. The crew were cleared of any responsibility for the disaster. The report, which was sent on March 23 to the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board for comment, should be released in late May. Under an international convention the draft must be submitted for final comments to the relevant authorities. Boeing spokesmen were unavailable for comment. On April 4, a Boeing spokesman at the firm's headquarters said the company would probably make no comment on the Japanese investigation team's report until it was officially released. On September 6, 1985, Boeing said in a statement that the 1978 repairs it had undertaken were faulty. This statement did not, however, connect the faulty repairs with the cause of the crash. Reuter 
JAPAN BUYS 4,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 4,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for last half May/first half June shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
SHOWA DENKO EXPORTS ALUMINIUM CASTING EQUIPMENT

<Showa Denko Ltd> said it is exporting aluminium billet casting equipment and technology to countries that have recently begun aluminium smelting. A company official said it won a 500 mln yen order to deliver 10 sets of casting equipment to Venezuela's Venalum by end-1987. He said it received an order for one set from Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. Last year and expects further orders from the Bahrain smelter. Showa Denko withdrew from smelting last year but expects to increase its sales of equipment and technology, he said. REUTER 
MEMBERS OF JAPAN'S RULING PARTY SHUN NAKASONE

Members of prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have shunned his support in their campaigns for upcoming local elections. "His presence will do more harm than good," an LDP candidate in Tokyo told Reuters. The candidate is one of several conservatives who have rebelled and joined the public outcry against Nakasone's proposal for a five pct sales tax. Political analysts said Nakasone might have to step down before the Venice summit of industrial democracies on June 8-10 if the LDP lost too many major local seats. Nakasone's popularity has dropped sharply since he led his party to its greatest-ever election victory last July, and analysts said the proposed tax was one reason for the decline. Over 2,500 local seats will be filled during two rounds of polling. The first round is on Sunday, the second on April 26. Political analysts said a seat to watch would be the governorship of Fukuoka, southern Japan. The LDP and two centre parties are challenging the incumbent governor, Hachiji Okuda, who is supported by the opposition socialist and communist parties. The proposed tax is a key campaign issue. "The LDP and the centrist parties should have about 1,350,000 votes against 700,000 for Okuda. But Okuda is the incumbent and has the sales tax weapon," said Rei Shiratori, professor of political science at Dokkyo University. "Nakasone will serve out his term to the end of October if the LDP wins in Fukuoka," he said. Analysts believe the opposition is likely to win the governorship of the northern island of Hokkaido. But Kenzo Uchida, professor of political science at Hosei University, said, "Nakasone can afford to get fairly tough if the LDP loses only in Hokkaido." The opposition parties are campaigning to scrap the sales tax proposal. The tax is one of the main pillars of Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system, which has remained unchanged for 36 years. It is also a key element in plans to boost Japanese domestic demand and cut back on exports. Without the tax revenue the government would have less to spend on stimulating the economy. REUTER 
MITSUBISHI TO ISSUE TWO CONVERTIBLE BONDS

Mitsubishi Corp <MITT.T> said it will issue a 50 billion yen unsecured seven-year convertible bond and a 30 billion yen unsecured nine-year convertible bond on the domestic capital market through public placement with Nikko Securities Co Ltd as lead manager. Coupon and conversion price for both par-priced bonds will be set at a board meeting to be held later this month and payment is due on May 14, Mitsubishi said in a statement. The seven-year bond matures on September 30, 1994, and the nine-year bond on September 30, 1996. Mitsubishi's share price fell 30 yen to 1,200 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD IS WORRYING

The leaders of two of Japan's top business groups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7) accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern to Japan because it shows the major industrial nations regard the yen's current level as appropriate. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is well above adequate levels. He did not elaborate. Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yen from rising further. "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates as the yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishihara said. G-7 members Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany said in a statement they consider their currencies are now within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals. Saito called on each G-7 member nation to prepare to intervene in the market strongly enough to ensure exchange rates are stabilised at appropriate levels. REUTER 
G-7 COMMITMENT TESTS JAPAN'S WILL TO BOOST ECONOMY

The statement issued today by the Group of Seven (G-7) industrialised nations has put Japan under greater international pressure to stimulate its economy or face a further rise in the yen, private economists and analysts said. They said the communique reflected increased foreign frustration with Japan's burgeoning trade surplus and its tight-fisted fiscal policies in the past. Unless Japan implements economic measures included in the statement, foreign protectionist sentiment would grow and the yen would come under renewed upward pressure, they said. The G-7 -- grouping the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- said in the statement they welcomed proposals announced by Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) for extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate its economy and that Japan reaffirmed its intention to further open its domestic markets. "It's rather unusual that only Japan was mentioned in the communique and promised something," said Takeshi Saito, general manager of Fuji Bank Ltd's research division. This showed how strongly other nations want Japan to take concrete and effective steps to redress its trade surplus, he said. The statement referred to some details of Japan's proposed economic measures, such as early implementation of a large supplementary budget exceeding those of previous years and unprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures. It did not mention any figure for the projected supplementary budget but LDP officials have said it will amount to more than 5,000 billion yen for fiscal 1987, which compares with 2,000 billion provided for the previous year. "It signalled a clear shift away from the conservative fiscal policies of the past," said Kazuaki Harada, senior managing director of Sanwa Research Institute. For the last five years the government has stuck to a tight-fisted fiscal policy in its attempt to stop issuing deficit financing bonds by 1990. But mounting foreign pressure for Japan to boost its economy, hurt by the yen's extended rise, hurried the government to hammer out a draft economic package and bring it to the latest G-7 meeting. Harada said Japan should not view expansion of its economy as the result of pressure but as an opportunity to lead world economic growth. "The Japanese economy has the potential to take a leadership role and we should recognize it," Harada said. If Japan fails to meet such international expectations it will invite some retaliatory moves, especially from the U.S., Which may result in a further rise of the yen, analysts said. The G-7 communique represented a test for Japan's commitment to domestically-generated economic growth and to a more balanced world trade structure, they said. REUTER 
MALAYSIA SEEKS 42 BILLION YEN PIPELINE LOAN

Malaysia has asked Japan for a 42 billion yen 25-year loan to finance the construction of gas pipelines from eastern Trengganu to southern Johor, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) said. OECF's chief representative, Takashi Matsuya, told reporters the Japanese Government is appraising the loan. Another OECF official told Reuters Japan is likely to approve the loan because "it is technically and economically viable." If approved, the loan would carry a coupon rate of four pct, a grace period of seven years, Matsuya said. It would be disbursed over three years, he added. The pipeline contruction is the second phase of the Peninsular Gas Utilisation Project by Petronas, Malaysia's national oil company. The first phase was the supply of gas to households in and around the eastern oil town of Kertih. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars at around 145.10 yen just after the market here opened, dealers said. Just before the opening, the dollar dropped swiftly as speculators concluded the Group of Seven (G-7) comminuique issued in Washington contained nothing basically new, they said. It fell about a half yen, to around 145. The G-7 reaffirmed that their currencies around current levels reflect economic fundamentals. One dealer said the Bank of Japan probably intervened in Australia before the opening here, but could not confirm this. REUTER 
JAPAN CRITICISED FOR "DUMPING" OF BANK SERVICES

Japan, which has been accused of dumping everything from steel to computer microchips on world markets, is now under attack for alleged cut-throat selling of a product of a different sort -- banking services. At meetings here this week, Bank of England officials pressed their Japanese counterparts to change regulations that foreign bankers say give their Japanese rivals an unfair advantage in world financial markets. The technical banking talks coincided with, but were separate from, discussions between Japanese officials and British corporate affairs minister Michael Howard, who left Tokyo yesterday for South Korea. At the crux of the talks was the way regulators in various countries measure bank capital and how much capital banks must put up to back up their loans. It is generally agreed that shareholders' equity forms the bulwark of bank capital but there is disagreement about what else should be included. Some foreign bankers contend that their Japanese rivals can undercut them on loans and other banking services because Tokyo's capital regulations are easier to meet. The Japanese banks have an unfair advantage, Paul Hofer, head of the Foreign Bankers Association of Japan, told Reuters. Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist Masahiko Koido said, "They see us as very aggressive. We say we are just trying to catch up with them." Earlier this year, the United States and Britain agreed to adopt common regulations requiring banks to put up capital equivalent to at least six pct of total assets. The two countries urged others to follow suit, notably Japan. But Japanese Finance Ministry officials held out little hope that would happen soon as they just introduced new regulations governing capital ratios last May. Under those regulations, banks have until 1990 to attain a capital ratio of four pct. But, in tacit recognition of overseas pressure, the ministry set a six pct target for Japanese banks with overseas branches. But foreign bankers say the rub was that it allowed Japan's banks to count 70 pct of the value of their massive holdings of Japanese shares - their so-called hidden reserves - as capital. Without the shares, big Japanese banks would only have capital ratios of around three pct. With them, their ratios are well above six pct, especially after the recent record-breaking climb of Tokyo share prices. Western diplomats argue that the shares are valued far too high by the ministry. Japanese banks would never be able to realize anywhere near that amount if they were forced to sell the shares to raise funds in an emergency, they say. Finance Ministry officials defended their stance by saying that studies of the stock market over the last 30 years show that prices have rarely fallen below the 70 pct value level. But the U.S. Federal Reserve seems to think otherwise. Japanese officials say the Fed has effectively held up applications for bank licenses by Japanese financial institutions by asking them for a very detailed accounting of their hidden reserves. The officials say Japan recently raised the issue with the Fed through its embassy in Washington and is hoping for talks on the subject. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD IS WORRYING

The leaders of two of Japan's top business groups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7) accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern to Japan because it shows the major industrial nations regard the yen's current level as appropriate. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is well above adequate levels. He did not elaborate. Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yen from rising further. "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates as the yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishihara said. G-7 members Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany said in a statement they consider their currencies are now within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals. Saito called on each G-7 member nation to prepare to intervene in the market strongly enough to ensure exchange rates are stabilised at appropriate levels. REUTER 
G-7 COMMITMENT TESTS JAPAN'S WILL TO BOOST ECONOMY

The statement issued today by the Group of Seven (G-7) industrialised nations has put Japan under greater international pressure to stimulate its economy or face a further rise in the yen, private economists and analysts said. They said the communique reflected increased foreign frustration with Japan's burgeoning trade surplus and its tight-fisted fiscal policies in the past. Unless Japan implements economic measures included in the statement, foreign protectionist sentiment would grow and the yen would come under renewed upward pressure, they said. The G-7 -- grouping the U.S., Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- said in the statement they welcomed proposals announced by Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) for extraordinary and urgent measures to stimulate its economy and that Japan reaffirmed its intention to further open its domestic markets. "It's rather unusual that only Japan was mentioned in the communique and promised something," said Takeshi Saito, general manager of Fuji Bank Ltd's research division. This showed how strongly other nations want Japan to take concrete and effective steps to redress its trade surplus, he said. The statement referred to some details of Japan's proposed economic measures, such as early implementation of a large supplementary budget exceeding those of previous years and unprecedented front-end loading of public works expenditures. It did not mention any figure for the projected supplementary budget but LDP officials have said it will amount to more than 5,000 billion yen for fiscal 1987, which compares with 2,000 billion provided for the previous year. "It signalled a clear shift away from the conservative fiscal policies of the past," said Kazuaki Harada, senior managing director of Sanwa Research Institute. For the last five years the government has stuck to a tight-fisted fiscal policy in its attempt to stop issuing deficit financing bonds by 1990. But mounting foreign pressure for Japan to boost its economy, hurt by the yen's extended rise, hurried the government to hammer out a draft economic package and bring it to the latest G-7 meeting. Harada said Japan should not view expansion of its economy as the result of pressure but as an opportunity to lead world economic growth. "The Japanese economy has the potential to take a leadership role and we should recognize it," Harada said. If Japan fails to meet such international expectations it will invite some retaliatory moves, especially from the U.S., Which may result in a further rise of the yen, analysts said. The G-7 communique represented a test for Japan's commitment to domestically-generated economic growth and to a more balanced world trade structure, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD WORRYING

The leaders of two of Japan's top business groups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7) accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern to Japan because it shows the major industrial nations regard the yen's current level as appropriate. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is well above adequate levels. He did not elaborate. Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yen from rising further. "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates as the yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishihara said. Reuter 
LAWSON SAYS IT ESSENTIAL THAT JAPAN DEVELOP DOMESTIC DEMAND



JAPAN BUYS 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 5,000 tonnes Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for May shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MEMBERS OF JAPAN'S RULING PARTY SHUN NAKASONE

Members of prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have shunned his support in their campaigns for upcoming local elections. "His presence will do more harm than good," an LDP candidate in Tokyo told Reuters. The candidate is one of several conservatives who have rebelled and joined the public outcry against Nakasone's proposal for a five pct sales tax. Political analysts said Nakasone might have to step down before the Venice summit of industrial democracies on June 8-10 if the LDP lost too many major local seats. Nakasone's popularity has dropped sharply since he led his party to its greatest-ever election victory last July, and analysts said the proposed tax was one reason for the decline. Over 2,500 local seats will be filled during two rounds of polling. The first round is on Sunday, the second on April 26. Political analysts said a seat to watch would be the governorship of Fukuoka, southern Japan. The LDP and two centre parties are challenging the incumbent governor, Hachiji Okuda, who is supported by the opposition socialist and communist parties. The proposed tax is a key campaign issue. "The LDP and the centrist parties should have about 1,350,000 votes against 700,000 for Okuda. But Okuda is the incumbent and has the sales tax weapon," said Rei Shiratori, professor of political science at Dokkyo University. "Nakasone will serve out his term to the end of October if the LDP wins in Fukuoka," he said. Analysts believe the opposition is likely to win the governorship of the northern island of Hokkaido. But Kenzo Uchida, professor of political science at Hosei University, said, "Nakasone can afford to get fairly tough if the LDP loses only in Hokkaido." The opposition parties are campaigning to scrap the sales tax proposal. The tax is one of the main pillars of Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system, which has remained unchanged for 36 years. It is also a key element in plans to boost Japanese domestic demand and cut back on exports. Without the tax revenue the government would have less to spend on stimulating the economy. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AROUND 143.70 YEN - DEALERS



DOLLAR OPENS AT RECORD TOKYO LOW 143.75 YEN (PREVIOUS RECORD 144.70) - DEALERS



DOLLAR OPENS AT TOKYO RECORD LOW OF 143.75 YEN

The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 143.75 yen despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention, dealers said. The previous record low was 144.70 yen set on March 30. The opening compares with 143.90/144.00 yen at the close in New York. The central bank bought dollars through Tokyo brokers just before and after the market opening, the dealers said. The intervention took place when the dollar fell to 143.20 yen, one dealer said. The dollar opened at 1.8155/60 marks against 1.8187/97 in New York. The dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen despite central bank intervention at 143.00 yen, dealers said. Selling pressure was strong from securities houses and institutional investors in hectic and nervous trading on underlying bearish sentiment for the dollar, they said. Most dealers were surpised by the dollar's sharp fall against the yen in New York, although many had expected such a drop to happen eventually. Institutional investors are expected to sell the dollar aggressively if it rises to around 143.50 yen, dealers said. The U.S. Currency steadied well above 143.00 yen after Bank of Japan intervention and scattered short-covering, they said. The dollar opened at 1.5120/30 Swiss francs against 1.5085/00 at the New York close. Sterling started at 1.6190/00 dlrs against 1.6195/05. REUTER 
DOLLAR FALLS BELOW 143 YEN IN TOKYO

The dollar fell below 143 yen in hectic early Tokyo trading despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention, dealers said. After opening at a Tokyo low of 143.75 yen, the dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen on heavy selling led by securities firms and institutional investors, they said. REUTER 
STOCKS PLUNGE IN EARLY TOKYO TRADE

Share prices plunged in early trade as an opening foreign exchange record low of 143.75 yen to the dollar and a weak stockmarket in New York withered investors' confidence, brokers said. After 32 minutes' trade, the average plummetted 313.00 to 22,609.20. Yesterday the market gained 9.21 to a record close. Brokers said the dollar's fall against the yen prompted a large selloff of export-related shares. But fears had spread throughout the market, depressing almost all issues. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA TO HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE LATER TODAY

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa is expected to hold a press conference later today after returning from Washington, a ministry spokesman told Reuters. Miyazawa is scheduled to arrive at 4.15 P.M. (0715 GMT) in Tokyo. The earliest time for the press conference would be 6.30 P.M. (0930 GMT). The minister attended a meeting of the Group of Seven (G-7) and other international monetary conferences in Washington. The G-7 -- Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany -- reaffirmed that current exchange rates are in line with economic fundamentals. REUTER 
AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK

Average interest rates on yen certificates of deposit (CD) fell to 4.13 pct in the week ended April 8 from 4.33 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japan said. New rates (previous in brackets) - Average CD rates all banks 4.13 pct (4.33) Money Market Certificate (MMC) ceiling rates for week starting from April 13 - 3.38 pct (3.58) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks - Less than 60 days 4.15 pct (4.41) 60-90 days 4.14 pct (4.29) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks - 90-120 days 4.12 pct (4.25) 120-150 days 4.12 pct (4.23) 150-180 days unquoted (4.03) 180-270 days 4.05 pct (4.05) Over 270 days 4.05 pct (unqtd) Average yen bankers acceptance rates of city, trust and long-term banks - 30 to less than 60 days 3.98 pct (4.20) 60-90 days 4.03 pct (3.97) 90-120 days unquoted (unqtd) REUTER 
JAPAN SEES MARGINAL RISE IN EDIBLE OIL DEMAND

The Agriculture Ministry estimates Japan's edible oil demand will rise 1.5 pct in calendar 1987 to 1.68 mln tonnes from 1.65 mln in 1986. Domestic consumption will rise to 1.66 mln tonnes in 1987 from 1.64 mln in 1986, while imports will rise to 77,000 tonnes from 70,000 and exports will be unchanged at 14,000. Edible oil supplies will total 1.75 mln tonnes in 1987 against 1.73 mln last year, including domestic output of 1.60 mln against 1.55 mln. Domestic supplies will comprise 725,000 of soybean oil (706,000 in 1986), 638,000 of rapeseed oil (609,000) and 235,000 of other origin oils (231,000). REUTER 
TOKYO STOCKMARKET INDEX PLUNGES 427.48 TO 22,789.11 AT 1343 LOCAL TIME - BROKERS



TOKYO STOCKS PLUNGE IN MIDDAY TRADE

Tokyo's stockmarket index plunged sharply at the start of afternoon trade as investors took profits from last week's four straight record closes, brokers said. The market index fell 427.48 points to 22,789.11 only 13 minutes after afternoon trading began at 13:30 local time. Brokers said concern over weekend announcements of mounting trade tension with Europe and the U.S. Sparked the heavy selloff. The average had risen 630.48 points in the last four trading sessions of last week. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN ACTIVELY BUYING DOLLARS AT AROUND 142.20 YEN IN TOKYO - DEALERS



JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan actively bought dollars here in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealers said. The central bank had placed buy orders at that level and prevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses, they said. However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currency significantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added. The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30 yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER 
NAKASONE'S PARTY SUFFERS SETBACKS IN LOCAL POLLS

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular plan to introduce a sales tax caused an electoral setback for his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in Sunday's local elections, political analysts said. The LDP retained its 11 prefectural governorships, but failed to restore a governorship in Fukuoka it had placed much importance on winning. In the prefectural assembly elections to fill 2,670 seats, the LDP has so far lost 92 of its previously held 1,487 seats to the socialists and communists. Full election results should be available later today. Discussing the election results with reporters, Nakasone said, "I wouldn't say the proposed five pct sales tax had no effect at all, but there were other factors, such as a low turnout and unusually cold weather." The Home Affairs Ministry said the average turnout for the 13 gubernatorial elections was a record low 59.78 pct while the prefectural assembly polls drew an average of 66.66 pct, also a record low. Noboru Goto, president of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry and a longtime friend of Nakasone, told reporters the impact of the sales tax on the LDP's setback was obvious. "The government should take action (on the sales tax) in regard to the people's wishes," Goto said. Nakasone and other LDP leaders have already hinted at a delay in the implementation of the tax, which had been scheduled for next January, and a possible cut in the rate. "The most important thing now is to get parliamentary approval of the budget as soon as possible to arrest a rapid appreciation of the yen," Nakasone said. "We must implement measures to prop up the economy." Opposition parties said the elections were a referendum on the tax and they will continue to demand its retraction. REUTER 
KYUSHU ELECTRIC TO ISSUE 20 BILLION YEN BOND

Kyushu Electric Power Co Inc will issue a seven-year 20 billion Euroyen bond on April 22, a company spokesman said. The straight bond, to be priced at 101.625, will carry a 4.75 pct coupon to yield 4.445 pct. Lead manager is Nomura International Inc. Issue cost including fees will be 4.8 pct, or 0.9 percentage point below the March issue rates for Japanese electric power company bonds. These are normally between the rates on 10-year government bonds and private corporate bonds. REUTER 
MATSUSHITA TO LAUNCH PORTABLE COPIER

Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T> said it would launch the world's smallest and lightest personal-use plain paper copier (PPC) on the domestic market in early June. It said the 69,800 yen copier is 367 mm by 407 mm by 120 mm, weighs six kilos, and can copy pictures from television and VCR's with an optional adaptor. The company plans to produce 2,000 sets a month and will eventually export them, it said without providing further details. Total Japanese PPC output rose 12 pct to 560,000 units in 1986 and is projected to rise to 610,000 this year, it said. REUTER 
ELECTION RESULT MAY DELAY JAPAN ECONOMIC STIMULUS

The ruling Liberal Democratic Party's (LDP) setback in Sunday's nationwide local elections may force the government to water down its controversial proposal for a five pct sales tax and undermine its commitment to stimulating the economy, private economists said. The LDP's failure to win seats in some crucial local constituencies will weaken the government's ability to push through its tax plan, and without a compromise tax proposal the budget for fiscal 1987/88 ending March 31 is unlikely to be passed soon, they said. Without the budget, the government would also be hard-pressed to come up with an effective package to stimulate the economy as pledged at Group of Seven meetings in Paris in late February and in Washington last week, they said. Opposition protests against the sales tax have stalled parliamentary debate on the budget for weeks and forced the government to enact a stop-gap 1987/88 budget that began early this month. "The LDP's election setback will have an enormous impact on the already faltering economy," said Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute. Takahashi said that behind the LDP's poor showing was public discontent with the government's high-handed push for tax reform and its lack of effective policies to cope with economic woes caused by the yen's appreciation. "This explains why the LDP failed to regain governorships in the most hotly contested constituencies of Fukuoka and Hokkaido, where the shipbuilding and steel industries are suffering heavily from the yen's extended rise," he said. Takahashi said the government should delay introduction of the sales tax for one or two years beyond its original starting date of January 1988 and implement tax cuts now. Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist Masahiko Koido also said he favours watering down the proposed sales tax while suggesting the government boost public works spending by modifying its tight fiscal policies. "The local election results were a signal the economy now needs government action to take clear-cut fiscal measures," he said, adding that such moves would help the world economy as well as Japan's. For the last five years or so, the government has stuck to a tight fiscal policy in a bid to halt the issue of deficit financing bonds by fiscal 1990/91, economists said. If the LDP election setback leads to a scaled down sales tax proposal, the government would have to find other revenue sources to help finance the planned tax cuts and a package of measures to stimulate the economy, the economists said. Koido said the government could raise additional revenue by selling shares in public corporations such as Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. But it should issue additional bonds to ensure a more stable source of funds, he said. "It may run counter to its avowed policy of balancing the budget, but it can do so on a short-term basis," he said. Takahashi of Mitsubishi Research also agreed with the need for the government to float more bonds to raise funds needed for economic expansion. He said additional government borrowing would place no burden on the capital market because it has amassed huge excess funds and government bond prices have risen to record levels lately. "The market is just waiting for more new government bond issues," he said. REUTER 
EC COULD DECIDE ON JAPAN TRADE MOVES IN LATE MAY

The European Community (EC) has effectively given Japan six weeks to take moves to open its market to imports before it decides on possible tough retaliatory trade measures, EC diplomats said. They said EC foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26 to review the state of trade relations between the two sides. The EC executive commission was asked by representatives of member states on Friday to propose a renunciation of some EC pledges to the world trade body, GATT, unless there are "adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market." Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposing stiff increases in duties, or quantitative limits, on Japanese exports. The diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would be discussed in detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministers on April 27 and 28 in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepare proposals for possible retaliatory action. They said the commission has powers to take some limited action before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japanese exports of electrical, photographic and other goods being diverted to Europe in the wake of possible U.S. Tariff moves. In May, the ministers are also likely to discuss how to prevent Japan from getting an extra trading advantage as a result of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc, which obliges them gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial goods. Meanwhile, Japan's trade surplus with the Community has grown steadily, registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 800 billion yen in deficit financing bills today through 51-day repurchase agreements maturing June 3 to help absorb a projected money market surplus, money traders said. The operation will raise the outstanding supply of the bills to a record 4,800 billion yen. The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.8999 pct compared with the two-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8750 pct and the two-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.13/00 pct. The traders estimated the surplus today at about 1,800 billion yen. They said it is mainly due to 1,300 billion yen of government tax allocations to local governments and public entities and to excessive banking system cash holdings due to continuous large central bank dollar purchases. REUTER 
NAKASONE'S PARTY SUFFERS SETBACKS IN LOCAL POLLS

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular plan to introduce a sales tax caused an electoral setback for his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in Sunday's local elections, political analysts said. The LDP retained its 11 prefectural governorships, but failed to restore a governorship in Fukuoka it had placed much importance on winning. In the prefectural assembly elections to fill 2,670 seats, the LDP has so far lost 92 of its previously held 1,487 seats to the socialists and communists. Full election results should be available later today. Discussing the election results with reporters, Nakasone said, "I wouldn't say the proposed five pct sales tax had no effect at all, but there were other factors, such as a low turnout and unusually cold weather." The Home Affairs Ministry said the average turnout for the 13 gubernatorial elections was a record low 59.78 pct while the prefectural assembly polls drew an average of 66.66 pct, also a record low. Noboru Goto, president of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry and a longtime friend of Nakasone, told reporters the impact of the sales tax on the LDP's setback was obvious. "The government should take action (on the sales tax) in regard to the people's wishes," Goto said. Nakasone and other LDP leaders have already hinted at a delay in the implementation of the tax, which had been scheduled for next January, and a possible cut in the rate. "The most important thing now is to get parliamentary approval of the budget as soon as possible to arrest a rapid appreciation of the yen," Nakasone said. "We must implement measures to prop up the economy." Opposition parties said the elections were a referendum on the tax and they will continue to demand its retraction. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan actively bought dollars here in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealers said. The central bank had placed buy orders at that level and prevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses, they said. However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currency significantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added. The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30 yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER 
FURTHER WEAKNESS SEEN IN TOKYO STOCKS IN NEAR TERM

Tokyo share prices are expected to weaken further for about a week, following a sharp drop which at one time today saw the Nikkei Dow index down 571.01 points in mid-afternoon trading, brokers said. They said uncertainty caused by disputes between Japan and its main trading partners will continue to deter investors from equities. The market index, which closed the day 297.05 points down at 22,919.54, will probably end the present downturn at around 22,300 points, brokers predicted. "This is just a short-term correction and the market will probably end up at about 22,300 in about a week's time," said a broker at Nomura Securities Co. He said that today's late recovery from afternoon lows showed that investors were still hunting bargains in anticipation of an upturn. Brokers reiterated expectations of an imminent cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate, a factor seen to be diverting money from bank accounts into stocks and boosting the market. Securities company, bank and insurance issues, likely to benefit from a rate cut, were bought in late trading. The Nomura broker said he expects the rate cut in May or June, after Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's scheduled visit to Washington on April 29. Nakasone is expected to seek an end to Japanese-U.S. Trade disputes which are hurting investor confidence. "Until we see some concerted effort by the Japanese to halt the yen's rise against the dollar and settle trade disputes, the market will stay low," said head of equities at Jardine Fleming Securities Co, Mario Malt. Malt said current talks between the countries were inflammatory and damaged stockmarket optimism. Brokers also said that Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party has to show it still rules, after Sunday's nationwide local elections showed dwindling support. "It raises doubts on whether the LDP can push through the reforms it planned for this year," said one broker. Top policy priorities this year are deregulation of financial activities, stimulation of domestic demand to boost imports and removal of agricultural subsidies. If these policies are abandoned or scaled down, stockmarket investors will have few reasons to buy stocks, brokers said. REUTER 
TRADE ISSUES STRAINING EC'S PATIENCE WITH JAPAN

Member states of the European Community are starting to run out of patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to open its market to imports, but as often made only minor moves. Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness, or at least the ability, of the Japanese government to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC. However, they said an all-out trade war may be far off, as EC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan. Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17. The EC tariffs, which would involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body GATT, would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March, up from 1.94 billion in February. Reuter 
EC COULD DECIDE ON JAPAN TRADE MOVES IN LATE MAY

The European Community (EC) has effectively given Japan six weeks to take moves to open its market to imports before it decides on possible tough retaliatory trade measures, EC diplomats said. They said EC foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26 to review the state of trade relations between the two sides. The EC executive commission was asked by representatives of member states on Friday to propose a renunciation of some EC pledges to the world trade body, GATT, unless there are "adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market." Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposing stiff increases in duties, or quantitative limits, on Japanese exports. The diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would be discussed in detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministers on April 27 and 28 in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepare proposals for possible retaliatory action. They said the commission has powers to take some limited action before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japanese exports of electrical, photographic and other goods being diverted to Europe following of possible U.S. Tariff moves. In May, the ministers are also likely to discuss how to prevent Japan from getting an extra trading advantage as a result of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc, which obliges them gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial goods. Japan's trade surplus with the Community has grown steadily, registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March. Reuter 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEEED

Japanese crushers bought 3,000 to 4,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for last half May/first half June shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MORGAN STANLEY ISSUES WARRANTS INTO JAPANESE FIRM

Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Ltd is issuing 45,000 covered equity warrants exercisable into shares of Japan Synthetic Rubber Co Ltd at an issue price of 212 Swiss francs per warrant, lead manager Morgan Stanley SA said. The initial exercise price is 494 yen per share and final maturity is February 4, 1992. The issue price represents a premium of 6.57 pct over the stock's closing price of 653 yen. Each warrant is exercisable into 100 shares of common stock of Japan Synthetic Rubber. The exercise period is June 5, 1987 to February 4, 1992. REUTER 
MORGAN STANLEY ISSUES WARRANTS INTO JAPANESE FIRM

Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Ltd is issuing 45,000 covered equity warrants exercisable into shares of Japan Synthetic Rubber Co Ltd at an issue price of 212 Swiss francs per warrant, lead manager Morgan Stanley SA said. The initial exercise price is 494 yen per share and maturity is February 4, 1992. The issue price represents a premium of 6.57 pct over the stock's closing price of 653 yen. Each warrant is exercisable into 100 shares of common stock of Japan Synthetic Rubber. The exercise period is June 5, 1987 to February 4, 1992. REUTER 
ELECTION RESULT MAY DELAY JAPAN ECONOMIC STIMULUS

The ruling Liberal Democratic Party's (LDP) setback in Sunday's nationwide local elections may force the government to water down its controversial proposal for a five pct sales tax and undermine its commitment to stimulating the economy, private economists said. The LDP's failure to win seats in some crucial local constituencies will weaken the government's ability to push through its tax plan, and without a compromise tax proposal the budget for fiscal 1987/88 ending March 31 is unlikely to be passed soon, they said. Without the budget, the government would also be hard-pressed to come up with an effective package to stimulate the economy as pledged at Group of Seven meetings in Paris in late February and in Washington last week, they said. Opposition protests against the sales tax have stalled parliamentary debate on the budget for weeks and forced the government to enact a stop-gap 1987/88 budget that began early this month. "The LDP's election setback will have an enormous impact on the already faltering economy," said Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute. Takahashi said that behind the LDP's poor showing was public discontent with the government's high-handed push for tax reform and its lack of effective policies to cope with economic woes caused by the yen's appreciation. "This explains why the LDP failed to regain governorships in the most hotly contested constituencies of Fukuoka and Hokkaido, where the shipbuilding and steel industries are suffering heavily from the yen's extended rise," he said. Takahashi said the government should delay introduction of the sales tax for one or two years beyond its original starting date of January 1988 and implement tax cuts now. Reuter 
Bank of Japan intervenes to support dollar after Tokyo opening, dealers



BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTER OPENING

The Bank of Japan intervened in Tokyo to buy dollars just after the market opened, dealers said. The dollar opened at 142.05 yen against 142.15/25 in New York and 142.50 at the close here yesterday. The bank stepped into the market amid selling pressure from interbank dealers, dealers said. REUTER 
Japan March wholesale prices rise 0.2 pct (0.1 pct February drop) - official



Bank of Japan intervening to support dollar against yen, dealers



JAPAN MARCH MONEY SUPPLY RISES 9.0 PCT

Japan's broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificate of deposits (CD) rose a preliminary 9.0 pct in March from a year earlier, compared with an 8.8 pct rise in February, the Bank of Japan said. The seasonally adjusted March average of M-2 plus CDs rose 0.8 pct from February when it rose an identical 0.8 pct from a month earlier, it said. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs stood at an average 343,600 billion yen in March compared with 336,015 billion in February. REUTER 
Tokyo stock index rises 69.92 to record closing 23,938.35 - brokers



JAPANESE VEHICLE EXPORTS, OUTPUT FALL IN 1986/87

Japan's vehicle exports fell 3.8 pct to 6.59 mln in the year ended March 31, 1987, while vehicle output fell 1.2 pct to 12.27 mln, industry sources said. Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> said its exports fell 5.5 pct to 1.87 mln in 1986/87, and comprised 1.20 mln cars, down 0.8 pct from a year earlier, 649,587 trucks, down 11.7 pct, and 14,797 buses, down 48.2 pct. Nissan Motor Co Ltd <NSAN.T> said its 1986/87 exports fell 8.1 pct to 1.29 mln. They comprised 1.03 mln cars, down 0.3 pct from a year earlier, 258,278 trucks, down 29.5 pct, and 4,857 buses, down 37.1 pct. Toyota's exports to the U.S. Rose 4.2 pct from a year earlier to 1.01 mln and those to Europe rose 17.7 pct to 428,977. Of the European total, shipments to West Germany rose 46.9 pct to 96,589 and those to U.K. Fell 13.9 pct to 34,131. Toyota's 1986/87 exports to the Middle East fell 56.8 pct to 71,631 and those to Southeast Asia fell 58.2 pct to 62,145. Nissan exports to the U.S. Fell 5.5 pct to 659,118. Exports to Europe rose 17.3 pct to 413,462, of which those to West Germany rose 43.3 pct to 97,284 but those to the U.K. Fell 8.9 pct to 100,831. Exports to the Middle East fell 59.6 pct to 40,679,those to Southeast Asia fell 55.8 pct to 33,398. REUTER 
SAUDI ARABIA WANTS TO INCREASE OIL SALES TO JAPAN

Saudi Arabia hopes to increase the volume of its oil exports to Japan through expanding bilateral trade, Saudi Arabian Interior Minister Naif bin Abdul-Aziz said. He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes to raise crude and products exports to Japan to earlier levels, but did not elaborate. To promote trade, Saudi Arabia is inviting Japanese industries to do business there, he said. Japanese firms now have long-term contracts to import a total of 150,000 barrels per day of Saudi crude. REUTER 
DAI NIPPON TO ISSUE THREE DOMESTIC CONVERTIBLES

Dai Nippon Printing Co Ltd <DPRI.T> said it will issue three convertible yen bonds on domestic markets. It will issue a 25 billion yen 15-year bond through public placement with Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd as lead manager. It will also issue a 15 billion yen 10-year bond and a 10 billion yen six-year bond through public placement, both with Nomura Securities Co Ltd as lead manager. Coupon and conversion price for the par-priced bonds will be set at Dai Nippon's next board meeting. Payment will be due on June 1. The 15-year bond will mature on May 31 2002, the 10-year on May 30 1997, and the six-year on May 31 1993. Dai Nippon's share price rose 20 to 1,800 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. REUTER 
JAPAN'S LDP TO CALL FOR FLEXIBLE MONETARY POLICIES

Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) will call for adequate and flexible management of the nation's monetary polices in its plan to expand domestic demand, a senior LDP official told Reuters. Junichiro Koizumi, the head of the LDP committee working out the plan, said the phrase should not be taken as implying an immediate cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate. "The LDP generally believes that there is no need for a further discount rate cut at the moment," he said. But Koizumi said the LDP does not rule out a rate cut if necessary in the future. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told a press conference on Wednesday that the central bank does not have any intention of easing credit conditions. REUTER 
JAPAN SEES HIGHER MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH THIS QUARTER

The Bank of Japan said it forecast Japan's broadly-defined M-2 money supply average plus certificates of deposit (CDs) will rise by about nine pct in the current April-June quarter against 8.5 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs rose a preliminary 8.8 pct in January/March 1987 compared with a nine pct rise a year earlier, it said. The bank said the forecast rise is due to an increase in floating deposits due to recent low interest rates and a shift to private banks from the Bank of Japan of 400-1,000 billion yen by the recently privatised Japanese Railways. REUTER 
SONY PLANS VIDEO AND TAPE PRODUCTION IN THAILAND

<Sony Corp> of Japan plans to launch a 15-mln-dlr project here soon to produce video and music cassette tapes mainly for export, Chira Phanupong, head of Thailand's Board of Investment, said. Chira told reporters Sony will likely receive investment tax incentives from his agency which is in charge of promoting foreign investment. The BoI chief said most small and medium Japanese firms view Thailand as the best country in South East Asia to which they could shift their high-cost production facilities in the wake of the strong yen. BoI officials said the number of new Japanese investment projects seeking promotional privileges from the Thai government increased substantially in the past year as the stronge yen forced more Japanese companies to look for cheaper production bases abroad. <Sharp Corp> recently also obtained BoI tax incentives to invest in a project here to produce microwave ovens and refrigerators for the Thai market and for export. Chira said a big Japanese electronic firm is negotiating with his agency for Thai tax incentives for its project to manufacture audio equipment and other electrical appliances here. He declined to name the Japanese company but said its proposed project will provide employment for 50,000 Thais in five years. REUTER 
NAKASONE'S SALES TAX PLAN SUFFERS ANOTHER DENT

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular sales tax plan suffered another dent today when members of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) called for time to be taken in dealing with the proposed sales tax, party officials said. The call came in a resolution adopted by a group of some 150 LDP parliamentarians and secretaries, acting on behalf of their parliamentarians, at a meeting at the LDP headquarters, they said. The MPs represented seemed to Account for one-third of LDP MPs. The group is an LDP voluntary organisation, called the Parliamentarians' Research Society for Reestablishment of Finances claiming a membership of about 300 MPs, they said. Meanwhle, Nakasone this evening hinted that his party might be ready to accept some modification to the five-pct sales tax proposal after the fiscal 1987 state budget plan was passed by parliament. The LDP suffered a setback in last Sunday's local elections because of the controvertial tax plan. The result also undermined Nakasone's prestige, giving rise to a possibility that he might be forced out of office before October 30, when he is supposed to step down. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN COAL EXPORTERS FACE TOUGH JAPAN TALKS

Australian coal industry sources said Japanese electricity utilities are demanding price cuts in annual coal contract negotiations underway in Tokyo. But the sources said they were unable to substantiate reports here that one of the largest steaming coal customers <Chugoku Electric Power Co Inc> threatened to stop taking deliveries until new prices are set. Coal exporters want to maintain last year's 32 U.S. Dlrs a tonne price, which expired at the end of Japan's fiscal year on March 31, while the Japanese want to pay no more than the 27-28 U.S. Dlrs secured with China and South Africa. Ross McKinnon, general manager of <Thiess Dampier Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd>, which annually exports about one mln tonnes of steaming coal to Japan, mainly to Chugoku, told Reuters he had not been informed of any refusal to take shipments. McKinnon said he could not recall when a Japanese contract had been settled before the previous one had expired, and said "controlled leaks" were commonplace during talks. But Australian foreign currency markets took the reports seriously enough for dealers to say it added nervousness to trading, with the local dollar settling on 0.7080 U.S. Cents at midsession against its 0.7120 opening. Coal was Australia's largest single export in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1986 with shipments reaching 90.49 mln tonnes worth 5.21 billion dlrs, or 15.9 pct of total exports. Japan is the largest customer for the crucial steaming coal sector and took 14.97 mln tonnes of total exports of 43.3 mln tonnes in calendar 1986. Sydney resources analyst Ian Story said the appreciation of the Australian dollar against the U.S. Currency meant steaming coal exporters were now receiving just 44.72 dlrs a tonne against 52.42 dlrs when last year's contract was negotiated. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS MODERATE DOLLAR SUM -- DEALERS

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market to try to accelerate the dollar's rise after heavy dollar buying by institutional investors, dealers said. The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars at around 142.10 yen, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN CAREFULLY WATCHING MARKETS, SUMITA SAYS

The Bank of Japan is carefully watching the recent rapid rise of the Tokyo stock and yen bond markets for their impact on inflation, governor Satoshi Sumita said. In a statement to the bank's regional branch managers, Sumita said the central bank was particularly monitoring the markets because of the recent rapid growth of money supply. He said he is also carefully watching real estate prices. Sumita said he expects money supply growth to remain high from April through June. In March, money supply, as measured by M-2 plus certificates of deposit, rose at a year-on-year rate of nine pct. REUTER 
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND TRADE, OUTPUT

North Korea unveiled plans to boost industrial and agricultural production sharply over the next seven years and to greatly expand its foreign trade. Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People's Assembly in Pyongyang that North Korea intends to increase international trade by 220 pct in the period 1987/93, gross industrial output by 90 pct and agricultural production by 40 pct, according to the North Korean Central News Agency, monitored here. REUTER 
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND OUTPUT AND TRADE

North Korea unveiled plans to boost industrial and agricultural production over the next seven years and to greatly expand trade with other nations, the official North Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Tokyo, reported. Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People's Assembly in Pyongyang agricultural production will rise 1.4 times in the period of the new seven-year plan, the agency said. "For a more satisfactory solution of the problem of food, clothing and housing for the people, a 15 mln tonne target of grain will be hit...And 1.5 billion metres of textiles will be produced annually," he said. Annual output of non-ferrous metals will be lifted to more than 1.7 mln tonnes in the seven year plan, the agency quoted Li as saying. During the previous seven-year plan North Korea achieved annual output of 10 mln tonnes of grain. Chemical fertilizer production hit an annual target of five mln tonnes. He did not provide any other figures. REUTER 
GATT TO PROBE JAPAN'S FARM IMPORT RESTRICTIONS

The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will begin a probe on May 7-8 on the legality of Japanese import restrictions on 12 farm products, Agriculture Ministry officials said. The investigation, which will take place in Geneva, follows a U.S. Complaint last year that the restrictions violated GATT rules prohibiting import quotas. The products involved include fruit juice, peanuts and tomato juice. Reuter 
JAPAN SEES NEED TO ACT QUICKLY ON TRADE CRISIS

Japan is faced with a mounting crisis over its huge trade surplus and recognizes that it must act more quickly to refocus its export driven economy, a senior Foreign Ministry official said. "The sense of crisis among the Japanese public as well as the government is increasing," Deputy Director General Hiroshi Hirabayashi told reporters. "The need to accelerate the efforts (to restructure the economy) is well recognized." Hirabayashi said that gradual progress had been made to refocus the Japanese economy, but admitted that it might not seem all that spectacular to foreign observers. Difficulties had been encountered in implementing the so-called Maekawa report since it was unveiled a year ago, he said. But, he added, foreign governments should appreciate the efforts that have been made. The report, named for its principal author, former Bank of Japan governor Haruo Maekawa, called for a shift in Japan's economy away from its dependence on exports for growth. The Japanese cabinet today reviewed progress made since its release. According to Hirabayashi, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told his fellow ministers that Japan must follow the direction set out by Maekawa and urged them to make efforts to achieve it. Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari added that not enough had been done to publicize the action Japan was taking to refocus its economy. Listing some of those actions, Hirabayashi said imports of manufactured goods have increased, interest rates have fallen, and coal, steel and non-ferrous metal output have been reduced. He expressed hope that Japan will act more quickly in the future to implement the report and scoffed at a suggestion that it would take ten years for Maekawa's goals to be met. "It will not take very much time to fulfill the (goals) set out by the Maekawa report," he said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 4,000 TONNES OF CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 4,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for last-half May/first-half June shipment, nearly completing buying for May needs, trade sources said. Price details were not available. Reuter 
JAPANESE PARLIAMENT PASSES 1987 BUDGET

Parliament's Lower House passed the 1987 budget shortly before midnight local time, official parliamentary sources said. The move followed agreement by the ruling Liberal Democratic Party to a proposal that could kill its plan to introduce a controversial sales tax, political analysts said. The move was seen as a major blow to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, the leading advocate of the five pct tax, they said. Some analysts said Nakasone may be forced to step down after the June summit of heads of major industrial democracies and before his one-year term is due to expire at end-October. Under the compromise agreed by the LDP and opposition parties, Lower House Speaker Kenzaburo Hara will take charge of the sales tax bill, appoint a ruling/opposition party council to debate it and allow opposition leaders to review the present tax system, analysts said. Hara also verbally agreed to scrap the sales tax plan entirely if the joint council fails to reach agreement on how to handle the tax. The opposition parties, who have been vociferously attacking the sales tax plan for months, hailed the decision as a great victory. The opposition parties had already delayed passage of the budget for three weeks after the April 1 start of the fiscal year by intermittent parliamentary boycotts. Although the LDP had more than enough votes to ram the budget through parliament, it had been reluctant to do so for fear of a backlash of public opinion, especially after its setback in recent local elections due to the sales tax issue. The ruling party though was anxious to pass the budget before Nakasone leaves next week for the U.S. So that he could tell Washington the Japanese government was doing its utmost to boost the sagging economy and imports. According to Kyodo News Service, Nakasone told reporters he did not think the sales tax was dead. If the sales tax is dropped, it could prove a major boost to the economy because it would increase the government budget deficit, economists said. The sales tax was originally scheduled to be introduced next January to help offset the loss of government revenues stemming from a cut in income and corporate taxes due to go into effect this month. REUTER 
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO EASE CREDIT - OFFICIALS

The Bank of Japan does not intend to ease credit policy further, bank officials told Reuters. They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond market that the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate soon, possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29. Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka, western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, making a rate cut announcement early next week a virtual impossibility, they said. April 29 is a holiday here. REUTER 
JAPANESE BUYERS ACCEPT CUBA SUGAR DELAY - TRADERS

Several Japanese buyers have accepted postponement of between 150,000 and 200,000 tonnes of Cuban raw sugar scheduled for delivery in calendar 1987 until next year following a request from Cuba, trade sources said. Cuba had sought delays for some 300,000 tonnes of deliveries, they said. It made a similar request in January when Japanese buyers agreed to postpone some 200,000 tonnes of sugar deliveries for 1987 until 1988. Some buyers rejected the Cuban request because they have already sold the sugar on to refiners, they added. Japanese buyers are believed to have contracts to buy some 950,000 tonnes of raw sugar from Cuba for 1987 shipment. But Japan's actual raw sugar imports from Cuba are likely to total only some 400,000 to 450,000 tonnes this year, against 576,990 in 1986, reflecting both the postponements and sales earlier this year by Japanese traders of an estimated 150,000 tonnes of Cuban sugar to the USSR for 1987 shipment, they said. They estimated Japan's total sugar imports this year at 1.8 mln tonnes, against 1.81 mln in 1986, of which Australia is expected to supply 550,000, against 470,000, South Africa 350,000, against 331,866, and Thailand 400,000, after 390,776. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET

The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from falling below 140.00 yen, dealers said. The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars to prevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yen against 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close here yesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April 15. REUTER 
JAPAN AGENCY URGES WATCH ON YEN RISE EFFECTS

Japan should look out for possible effects of the yen's recent sharp rise on Japan's economy as growth remains slow, the government's Economic Planning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to cabinet ministers. EPA officials told reporters the underlying trend of the economy is firm but growth is slow due to sluggish exports. Customs-cleared exports by volume fell 4.9 pct month-on-month in February after a 2.8 pct fall in March. The government must take adequate economic measures to expand domestic demand and stabilise exchange rates in a bid to ensure sustained econonic growth, the report said. The report made a special reference to the yen's renewed rise and its effect on the economy, the officials said, adding the agency's judgement of current economic conditions has not changed since last month. The EPA said last month Japan's economy is beginning to show signs of bottoming out, conditional upon exchange rates. The dollar fell below 139 yen in early trading today - a post-war low. REUTER 
NAKASONE EXPECTED TO SURVIVE SALES TAX DEFEAT

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular sales tax plan has been defeated and although fellow politicians and political analysts agree he has suffered a grave loss of face only a few are willing to write him off. Michio Watanabe, a Nakasone faction member and deputy secretary general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, LDP, is one of those who believes he will survive. "He's tough, he won't step down," but "will hang on to the death" at least until his term ends on October 30, Watanabe told Reuters. The sales tax scheme was a mainstay in Nakasone's plans to revamp the nation's tax system for the first time in 36 years. Watanabe acknowledged that the five pct sales tax was a mistake. "It was too greedy," he said. A two or three pct tariff might have been easier to swallow, he said. One popular school of thought among skeptical analysts is that Nakasone will be remain in office at least until the June 8-10 summit of industrialised nations in Venice. A Western diplomatic observer said he believed that Nakasone would be at the summit as prime minister. But he would not bet on his chances of survival up until October. Masamichi Inoki, a senior fellow at the conservative Institute of Peace and Security, said he did not think Nakasone had suffered irreparable damage. "He will certainly hang on for the summit," Inoki said. In any event, the general belief now is that the five pct sales tax, as championed by Nakasone, is a dead issue but that an indirect tax, in another form, will be introduced by the LDP. Inoki said he believed the issue would be resurrected as early as the next Diet (parliament) meets. The current session finishes on May 27. The newspaper Tokyo Shimbun expressed another stream of opinion, stating that Nakasone might well get another year to deal with the unfinished and unpopular business of tax reform. The government has to find a way of generating revenue to support an expected glut of elderly Japanese. And the only means of drumming up the money is to levy an indirect tax, said Watanabe, a former Minister of International Trade and Industry. The next prime minister will have to grapple with an indirect tax, and "whoever is the next prime minister won't be in the job very long," Watanabe said. Watanabe said he doubted the next prime minister would be any of the three so-called "New Leaders," LDP secretary general Noboru Takeshita, LDP executive council chairman Shintaro Abe, and Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa. Each of them controls a powerful LDP faction. "It will be somebody else," he said. Political science professor Rei Shiratori of Dokkyo University gave one of the darkest readings on Nakasone's political future. "Soon after the Venice summit, there will be a move to change the government by the New Leaders," Shiratori said. "He can't fight on," he said. He said Nakasone had a special emotional attachment to the sales tax plan as the last and most important item in Japan's purge of policies inherited from the U.S. Occupation. Shiratori said an indirect tax will have to be levied, but "to introduce such a tax, they'll have to change the prime minister." Nevertheless, Shiratori said he believes Nakasone could hang on until as late as September. REUTER 
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO EASE CREDIT - OFFICIALS

The Bank of Japan does not intend to ease credit policy further, bank officials told Reuters. They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond market that the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate soon, possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29. Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka, western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, making a rate cut announcement early next week a virtual impossibility, they said. April 29 is a holiday here. REUTER 
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS FOR NEW MEASURES TO AID DLR

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japan has no plans to take new emergency measures to support the dollar, other than foreign exchange intervention. He also told reporters that many major nations yesterday intervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen. Yesterday's intervention was large in terms of the countries involved and the amounts expended, he said. With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen, speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japan might take new measures to support the U.S. Currency, such as curbing capital outflows. Miyazawa said that yesterday's news of a 4.3 pct rise in U.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected. Although the growth looks robust on the surface, the figures in reality are not that good, he said. He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) is expected to come up with a final set of recommendations of ways to stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week. Commenting on yesterday's report on economic restructuring by a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone, Miyazawa said it was important to put the panel's recommendations into effect. REUTER 
JAPAN DOCK STRIKE TO CONTINUE OVER WEEKEND

A strike by Japanese dockworkers will continue over the weekend as no breakthrough is in sight, a Japan Harbour Transportation Association spokesman said. The association has not yet agreed on a schedule for preliminary negotiations with the National Council of Harbour Workers Unions, because the council insisted on talks with shippers as well as dock management, he said. The strike, which began on Tuesday, halted container movements to points inside Japan from the ports of Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Kitakyushu, Shimizu, Yokkaichi and Hakata. Reuter 
BANKERS CONFIRM JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME UNCHANGED

Long-term bank sources confirmed their banks have decided to leave the current 5.2 pct long-term prime rate unchanged. The current rate has been in effect since March 28. The bankers said the rate was unchanged because the falling dollar and the bond market rally made it difficult to clarify the current level of yen interest rates. There had earlier this week been expectations of a 0.2 point cut from today in response to the fall in the secondary market yield in five-year long-term bank debentures, but bankers said last night the rate would be unchanged. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS UP TO 8,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 5,000 to 8,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for last-half May/first-half June shipment, trade sources said. Price details were not available. Reuter 
NAKASONE ADVISED TO EXPAND PURCHASES ABROAD

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was advised to work out a plan for his government to buy more than one billion dlrs worth of foreign industrial products as part of efforts to defuse Japan's trade frictions with the United States, officials said. Former Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe made the recommendation at a meeting with Nakasone soon after returning from a U.S. Visit designed to pave the way for the prime minister's visit to Washington starting next Wednesday. Abe met President Ronald Reagan and U.S. Congressional leaders during his visit. It was not known how Nakasone responded to the suggestion. It also included increasing the nation's untied loans to developing countries to between 25 billion and 30 billion dlrs over the next three years and giving foreign firms greater access to a six billion dlr international airport project in western Japan, officials said. Abe called for tax cuts and government funds to be funneled into public works projects to stimulate domestic demand. Abe spoke of the possibility that Nakasone's visit could coincide with the passage of a protectionist trade bill by the U.S. House of Representatives. REUTER 
EC SAYS JAPAN CAR EXPORT RESTRAINT NOT ENOUGH

Japan"s 1987 car export restraint to the European Community (EC) is not enough, EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq said. There are also strong signs Japanese exporters are diverting cars to the EC after the dollar"s fall against the yen made their U.S. Market unprofitable, he told reporters after meeting U.S., Japanese, and Canadian trade ministers. The EC has agreed that if it detects an abnormal diversion in Japanese exports from the U.S. To the EC market due to currency movements over the past two years, it will move to prevent it, he said. Over the period, the yen has risen against the dollar almost eight times as fast as against the European Currency Unit, he said. Japan has set an unofficial, voluntary 10 pct rise in car exports to the EC this year as part of its efforts to stop its rising trade surplus with the Community, which hit a record 18 billion dlrs last year. But Japanese car exports to the EC so far this year jumped over 30 pct compared to a drop of 17 pct in U.S. Sales, and a seven per cent fall globally. "We think there is some diversion there," said de Clercq. Japanese officials say the overall annual rise will be only 10 pct. "But even 10 pct is 100,000 cars, whereas we sell only 40,000 cars to Japan (per year) in total," he said. The EC is also demanding that Japan ease its strict checks and requirements for imported cars, which Brussels says is a non-tariff barrier. The EC is also worried because EC demand for cars is falling this year, making any rise in Japanese imports even more serious for EC auto manufacturers. De Clercq, who has taken a hard line on world trade problems at this weekend meeting in central Japan, said the EC appreciated Japan"s plans to cut exports and lift domestic growth instead. "But even if all these measures are implemented, it will take time. But there is not time," he said. "There are burning issues on the table which cannot wait. It were better that the fire were put out immediately and not to wait till the house burns down," he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO BUYING DOLLARS

The Bank of Japan intervened buying dollars shortly after the opening of 137.70 yen, dealers said. Strong selling from life insurance companies and investment trusts pressured the dollar downward, but the U.S. Unit steadied on profit-taking buying by petroleum companies and intervention by the central bank. The dollar's upward potential looks limited as forward dollar selling by exporters for commercial purposes is expected above 137.80, dealers said. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS FURTHER YEN RISE UNLIKELY - JIJI PRESS

Japan's Jiji Press quoted Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita as telling Japanese reporters the central bank will continue determined market intervention to prevent a further rise in the value of the yen. Sumita, who is attending an annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, also said he does not think the yen will continue to rise, Jiji reported. He said the Bank of Japan is keeping close contact with other major industrial nations on concerted market intervention, Jiji said. He said coordinated intervention is the only way to stop the dollar from dropping too fast, Jiji said. The dollar fell below 138 yen today. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO VIA BANK OF JAPAN

The Bundesbank intervened in the Tokyo foreign exchange market to buy a small amount of dollars against marks through the Bank of Japan, dealers said. The West German central bank bought dollars when the dollar was at about 1.7770-80 marks. Dealers' estimates of the intervention amount varied from 100 mln to one billion dlrs. Some dealers said the Bank of Japan appeared to have undertaken small-lot mark-selling intervention on its own account. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference the basic solution to currency instability among major nations is economic policy coordination. He said that is a time-consuming process as coordination does not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "That is democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said, there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations have sufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added. "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention will continue to operate," Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S. President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre and Washington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currency stability when they meet later this week. Asked whether the dollar is declining against all major currencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make any comments. He reiterated that many major nations have undertaken coordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar, including countries who are not members of the G-7. REUTER 



USSR ATTENDS ADB MEET, UNCERTAIN ON MEMBERSHIP

The Soviet Union is attending an Asian Development Bank (ADB) annual general meeting for the first time, but has not decided whether to apply for membership, a senior Soviet State Bank official said. "No specific plans exist for applying for membership," Yurij Ponomarev, international managing director of the State Bank, told Reuters. "It's too early to draw up any plans." The USSR is attending the 20th meeting as an observer. "The sole purpose is to observe and collect information first hand," Ponomarev said. He said the Soviet Union was responding to a long-standing ADB invitation to attend the meetings. "This is one of the fastest growing regions in the world," the State Bank official said. "It is in our interest to have good contacts." But those strengthened contacts will not be made at the expense of the Soviet Union's other relationships, he said. Delegates here said the USSR move was connected to recent efforts to develop closer ties with Asia. The policy was announced last year by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in a speech at Vladivostok. Moscow's decision to attend the meetings follows its application last year for membership of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Delegates said the USSR faces lacklustre growth and is searching for ways to boost its economy. Although the ADB said political ideology is not a critiera for membership, several delegates said politics would play a large role in any decision to allow Moscow to join. Moscow's application would have to be approved by two-thirds of the board of governors representing three-quarters of the total voting power of member countries. The basic votes of the 47 members are all equal and total one-fifth of all votes. The remainder are proportional to the number of shares held by each member. Japan is the largest shareholder, at 15.1 pct, followed by the U.S. With 14.9 pct and China with 7.2 pct. The U.S. Has more than 12 pct of the total votes, insufficient to block a Moscow membership bid. Japanese officials said Tokyo has not decided its position regarding the possibility of Soviet membership and said they noted the Soviets had not yet made any move to join. REUTER 
PHILIPPINES TO GET 300 MLN DLR JAPANESE LOAN

The Philippines has received a 300 mln dlr loan from the Japanese Export-Import Bank, Philippine Finance Minister Jaime Ongpin told Reuters. Ongpin said the loan, carrying interest of 5.5 pct a year, matches a 300 mln dlr economic recovery loan approved by the World Bank in March. Ongpin said Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expressed satisfaction at the recent rescheduling of the Philippines' 10.3 billion dlr foreign debt during a meeting here yesterday. The 14th yen aid package from Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund was also discussed. Ongpin said the Japan is expected to respond favourably to a Philippine request to raise the aid level to between 75 and 80 billion yen. The aid package, originally scheduled for Japan's 1986/87 fiscal year ended March, was delayed because of the Philippines' change of government last year. "The Japanese have indicated we may not get as much as we are asking for in one big jump from the 13th yen package of 49 billion yen," he said. "But they are likely to bring it up to that level for the 15th package." Ongpin said Manila had 14 projects in the pipeline for the 14th yen package. "We are trying get the 15th package mainly in the form of untied commodity loans," he said. Discussion on a Philippine request for 500 mln dlrs in soft loans to finance a land reform program, for which Japan is expected to supply most of the financing, had been put off until next month because of delays in preparatory work. Ongpin said he will make a strong pitch for the land reform program in his speech on Tuesday at the 20th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) here. Ongpin said the Philippines is very happy about the ADB's support after President Corazon Aquino took over from deposed leader Ferdinand Marcos. "But I would like to see them push more aggressively in the field of lending to the private sector," he said. The Philippines was the bank's second-biggest borrower after Pakistan in 1986, with loans totalling 316 mln dlrs. Ongpin said he expects ADB lending to the Philippines in 1987 to reach the same level. "They have told us they can lend us two billion dlrs if we want. But we have to come up with the projects," he said. REUTER 
JAPANESE FIRMS TO SELL AUSTRALIAN GOLD COINS

Three Japanese trading companies and one coin retailer will start selling Australia's Nugget gold coins in Japan from May 12 after actively buying at the first international trading of the coins last Thursday, officials involved in the sale said. They estimated Japanese companies bought 30 pct of 155,000 ounces sold on Thursday. The coins are likely to be sold in Japan at prices similar to the South African krugerrand. REUTER 
FOREIGN INVESTORS NET SELLERS OF JAPANESE STOCKS

Foreigners were net sellers of Japanese stocks in the week ended April 17 for the seventh consecutive week, the Tokyo Stock Exchange said. Net sales were 112.15 billion yen against 105.80 billion the previous week. Overseas investors sold shares worth 727.08 billion yen on the Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya Exchanges, down 5.3 pct from the previous week. They bought stock worth 614.93 billion yen, down 5.2 pct. REUTER 
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO SEEK JAPANESE CREDIT

Finance minister Manuel Azpurua said he will visit Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for planned expansion in Venezuela's state-owned aluminum, steel and petrochemical industries. Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by central bank president Hernan Anzola and director of public finance Jorge Marcano. "The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic and financial authorities, with the banks which have business and credits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companies already active here," Azpurua said. Azpurua said he was optimistic about the trip, in light of Japan's recent announcement it will disburse 30 billion dlrs in new credit to Latin American countries. "I think this trip is being taken at an opportune time and will allow us to reveal the potencial which this country holds for the Japanese economic community," Azpurua said. He would not say how much Venezuela will seek in credits from Japan. REUTER 
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH

Japan's preliminary industrial production index (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8 in March from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier. The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from a year earlier after remaining flat in Feburary. The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base) fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3 pct from a year earlier. The adjusted March index of producers' inventories of finished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary. The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85 yen, dealers said. Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened here directly buying dollars against marks, after reports that it intervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning. The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the central bank intervention, they said. REUTER 
INDIAN BORROWING FROM ADB SEEN RISING

India, which received its first loans from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 1986, expects to increase borrowing this year, an Indian official said. The official, a member of the Indian delegation at the ADB's annual meeting here, told Reuters the bank is likely to approve three loans totalling between 350 and 400 mln dlrs in 1987, up from the 250 mln in two loans in 1986. The official said negotiations on a 100 mln dlr loan for the modernisation of the Haldia and Madras ports had been completed and only need approval by the bank's board. The official said an ADB team is now in India for a survey of the second project involving imports of railway locomotives. He said the bank was also likely to extend a credit line to the Industrial Development Bank of India. The ADB in 1986 extended a 100 mln dlr line of credit to state-owned Industrial Finance Corp of India. The official said the ADB wants to gradually expand lending to India. "They (the bank) do not want their traditional borrowers from smaller countries in the region to get overwhelmed by (India and China)," he said. China is expected to receive its first ADB loan this year. "We are quite satisfied at having opened this new window in borrowing," the official said. "Our projects are being vetted quickly. We have no complaints." He said the ADB in any case would not be able to match Indian borrowing needs. "In fiscal 1986/87 ending June India will borrow two billion dlrs from the World Bank alone," he said. "That represents the total ADB lending to all its borrowers in 1986." The official said total Indian development assistance from multilateral and bilateral creditors is likely to total four billion dlrs in 1986/87. Asked to comment on U.S. Criticism of the quality of ADB lending, the official said: "The ADB is a regional bank and ought to have a better understanding of realities in Asia." "You cannot apply World Bank conditionalities everywhere," he said. "The U.S. Cannot impose one yardstick for every country." REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED

The Bank of Japan's deputy governor Yasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that the central bank has no monetary measures other than intervention planned to stabilize currency rates. He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut in its 2.5 pct discount rate. Mieno said the central bank is determined to restore currency stability through intervention by the major industrial nations as recent exchange rate volatility stems from speculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 600 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 600 billion yen in 60-day financing bills tomorrow through 36-day repurchase agreements maturing June 3 to roll over a previously issued 400 billion yen of such bills maturing tomorrow, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses by money houses will be 3.8498 pct compared with the one-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8125 pct and the one-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.18/07 pct. The traders estimate the surplus tomorrow at about 700 billion yen. The remaining 300 billion yen is mainly due to increased cash holdings by the banking system because of central bank dollar purchases. The operation will put the outstanding supply of such bills to 3,500 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN HOLDS OUT PROMISE OF FUNDS FOR ASIAN BANK

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa opened the 20th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank by holding out the promise of more Japanese money for the organisation. "We are ... Striving to enhance the flow of capital from Japan to the developing countries," he said. "The Asia-Pacific region is an area of special concern for us in our bilateral and multilateral assistance." He said Tokyo was ready to study setting up a special Japanese fund at the ADB, like the one at the World Bank. The World Bank fund is earmarked for use by developing countries. Developing countries and the United States have criticised Japan for failing to use its trade surplus to help poor countries. Later this week, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is expected to tell President Reagan that Japan plans to extend as much as 30 billion dlrs to developing countries over the next three years, Japanese officials said. The exta ADB funding would be part of that amount. "Our cooperation is intended to contibute to ... Alleviating the burden on (developing countries)," said Miyazawa, who is also chairman of the ADB board of governors. "The developing countries today find themselves in a very difficult situation," he said. "With a few notable exceptions, those countries that are highly dependent upon commodity exports face a rough road ahead." While the developing countries can help themselves by striving to become internationally competitive and seeking to attract foreign investment, the ADB also has a role to play, he said. Miyazawa told the meeting the bank must beef up its economic advice program to developing nations and must work vigorously to identify development projects for loans. He also called for more use of loans that were not tied to development projects, but provided more overall help to the borrower. ADB President Masao Fujioka supported Miyazawa's view. "The bank has been fondly described as the family doctor," Fujioka said. "The bank will now have to equip itself to meet a range of services required to attend to varied needs of its developing members." Miyazawa told the meeting Tokyo was ready to allow its Export-Import Bank to co-finance ADB loans. These would not have to be used for the purchase of Japanese equipment. Tokyo was also prepared to let the Asian Development Bank raise more funds in Tokyo and financial markets should it need to do so, he said. REUTER 
NIPPON STEEL NOMINATES NEW PRESIDENT

Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.T> nominated Hiroshi Saito as president, to replace Yutaka Takeda, subject to shareholders' approval at a meeting on June 26, company officials told a press conference. Takeda will become chairman, and vice president Akira Miki will be vice chairman, they said. Current chairman Eishiro Saito, who is also chairman of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren), a leading Japanese business organisation, will act as honorary chairman and advisor, they added. Nippon Steel is now undergoing a strict rationalisation program to meet declining demand for steel products. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85 yen, dealers said. Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened here directly buying dollars against marks, after reports that it intervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning. The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the central bank intervention, they said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED

The Bank of Japan's deputy governor Yasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that the central bank has no monetary measures other than intervention planned to stabilize currency rates. He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut in its 2.5 pct discount rate. Mieno said the central bank is determined to restore currency stability through intervention by the major industrial nations as recent exchange rate volatility stems from speculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference the basic solution to currency instability among major nations is economic policy coordination. He said that is a time-consuming process as coordination does not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "That is democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said, there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations have sufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added. "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention will continue to operate," Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S. President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre and Washington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currency stability when they meet later this week. Asked whether the dollar is declining against all major currencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make any comments. He reiterated that many major nations have undertaken coordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar, including countries who are not members of the G-7. Reuter 
PHILIPPINES TO GET 300 MLN DLR JAPANESE LOAN

The Philippines has received a 300 mln dlr loan from the Japanese Export-Import Bank, Philippine Finance Minister Jaime Ongpin told Reuters. Ongpin said the loan, carrying interest of 5.5 pct a year, matches a 300 mln dlr economic recovery loan approved by the World Bank in March. Ongpin said Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expressed satisfaction at the recent rescheduling of the Philippines' 10.3 billion dlr foreign debt during a meeting here yesterday. The 14th yen aid package from Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund was also discussed. Ongpin said the Japan is expected to respond favourably to a Philippine request to raise the aid level to between 75 and 80 billion yen. The aid package, originally scheduled for Japan's 1986/87 fiscal year ended March, was delayed because of the Philippines' change of government last year. "The Japanese have indicated we may not get as much as we are asking for in one big jump from the 13th yen package of 49 billion yen," he said. "But they are likely to bring it up to that level for the 15th package." Ongpin said Manila had 14 projects in the pipeline for the 14th yen package. "We are trying get the 15th package mainly in the form of untied commodity loans," he said. Discussion on a Philippine request for 500 mln dlrs in soft loans to finance a land reform program, for which Japan is expected to supply most of the financing, had been put off until next month because of delays in preparatory work. Ongpin said he will make a strong pitch for the land reform program in his speech on Tuesday at the 20th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) here. Ongpin said the Philippines is very happy about the ADB's support after President Corazon Aquino took over from deposed leader Ferdinand Marcos. "But I would like to see them push more aggressively in the field of lending to the private sector," he said. The Philippines was the bank's second-biggest borrower after Pakistan in 1986, with loans totalling 316 mln dlrs. Ongpin said he expects ADB lending to the Philippines in 1987 to reach the same level. "They have told us they can lend us two billion dlrs if we want. But we have to come up with the projects," he said. REUTER 
EC SAYS JAPAN CAR EXPORT RESTRAINT NOT ENOUGH

Japan's 1987 car export restraint to the European Community (EC) is not enough, EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq said. There are also strong signs Japanese exporters are diverting cars to the EC after the dollar's fall against the yen made their U.S. market unprofitable, he told reporters after meeting U.S., Japanese, and Canadian trade ministers. The EC has agreed that if it detects an abnormal diversion in Japanese exports from the U.S. To the EC market due to currency movements over the past two years, it will move to prevent it, he said. Over the period, the yen has risen against the dollar almost eight times as fast as against the European Currency Unit, he said. Japan has set an unofficial, voluntary 10 pct rise in car exports to the EC this year as part of its efforts to stop its rising trade surplus with the Community, which hit a record 18 billion dlrs last year. But Japanese car exports to the EC so far this year jumped over 30 pct compared to a drop of 17 pct in U.S. Sales, and a seven per cent fall globally. "We think there is some diversion there," said de Clercq. Reuter 
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA

Senior officials from the Group of Seven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agenda for the body's June summit scheduled to be held in Venice, Japanese officials said. The meeting will provide senior government officials with their first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of the dollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longer term, they said. Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-Finance Minister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be held in Italy, they said, but gave no other details. The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discuss ways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice. The hope is that increased coordination will help reduce the huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currency markets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked. Japanese officials admitted there is little more they can do on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week saw the currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen. The officials said they expected sentiment against the dollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts to fall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink. "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in the trade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," one said. Last week's passage of the Japanese government budget by parliament's Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to take additional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boost imports, the officials said. Reuter 
JAPANESE FIRMS TO SELL AUSTRALIAN GOLD COINS

Three Japanese trading companies and one coin retailer will start selling Australia's Nugget gold coins in Japan from May 12 after actively buying at the first international trading of the coins last Thursday, officials involved in the sale said. They estimated Japanese companies bought 30 pct of 155,000 ounces sold on Thursday. The coins are likely to be sold in Japan at prices similar to the South African krugerrand. REUTER 
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO JAPAN IN MID-MAY

Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua said today he will travel to Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for planned expansions in Venezuela's state aluminum, steel and petrochemical industries. Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by Central Bank President Hernan Anzola and Director of Public Finance Jorge Marcano. 'The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic and financial authorities, with the banks which have business and credits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companies already active here,' Azpurua said. Reuter 
CHINA TO HOST 1989 ADB ANNUAL MEETING

The 22nd annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank will be held in Peking in 1989, a senior bank official told Reuters. China, which was admitted as the bank's 47th member in March 1986, will take a place on the ADB board at the current meeting here, he said. Peking's representatives have been attending board meetings over the past year as observers with no voting rights, he added. He said China, the bank's third-largest shareholder after Japan and the United States, will take the seat on the 12-member board currently occupied by a grouping of Sri Lanka, Vietnam, the Maldives, Laos and Afghanistan. He also said the U.S., Whose nominee on the board, Joe O. Rogers, resigned in September 1986, has named Victor Frank as his replacement. Frank, a private-sector appointee, is awaiting Senate approval and will take up his post later this year, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN STEELMAKERS, CANADA MINE DISCUSS COAL PRICE

<Quintette Coals Ltd> of Canada and Japanese steelmakers failed to agree on the Canadian coal base price over four years from April 1, but agreed to have another round of talks in late May, officials involved said. Japanese firms have asked for the base price to be set at 44 U.S. Dlrs per tonne (FOB), sharply lower than the 75 to 76 dlrs of the past four years, they told Reuters. The base price is reviewed every four years under the long-term accord. The Canadian mine insisted on maintaining the present price, they said. Japanese firms bought 4.75 mln tonnes of Quintette coal in 1986/87, and plan to buy the same volume in 1987/88 depending on the result of the talks, the officials said. They added Japan has no plans to withdraw its price cutback request due to recent falls in coking coal prices on the world market. Meanwhile <Gregg River Co> of Canada has agreed on a Japanese proposal to set a temporary price of 75.80 Canadian dlrs on and after May shipment following the failure of the 1987/88 price talks, they said. Japanese firms plan to buy 150,000 tonnes of Gregg River coal for May shipment and hold another round of talks with Gregg in late May, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH

Japan's preliminary industrial production index (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8 in March from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier. The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from a year earlier after remaining flat in Feburary. The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base) fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3 pct from a year earlier. The adjusted March index of producers' inventories of finished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary. The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER 
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY

Four trade ministers ended a weekend meeting with a frank confession that their governments are losing credibility in world financial markets and will not regain it until they back their promises over trade and currencies with action. "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came to action required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody," Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference. "From now on, if a government comes up with a certain policy, it must be followed by action," he said following two days of informal talks with the trade ministers of the United States, the European Community and Canada in central Japan. Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140 yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leading industrial powers that currencies should be stabilised to underpin world trade. "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we have confidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura. His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations fought over trade issues while calling for each other to honour free trade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspired confidence in the markets. "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If you belong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, if you want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq. Pat Carney of Canada said "We are meeting in a time of great trade tension. What the world needs to see is that we have the political will to deal with these problems we face." She said that next month's meeting of the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leaders of the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum to show this will existed. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the news conference that the results of such high level meetings could lead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing out world trade imbalances perhaps years later. "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetings like this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way it should be pursued," he said. "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceeds what is achieved in a tangible way," he said. Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others' positions and policies was just as important toward reducing trade tensions, he said. Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks: Currency stability was now essential, but currency movements alone would not correct a U.S. trade deficit with Japan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr EC deficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplus of almost 90 billion, he said. Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible export restraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows were most dangerous, he said. The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policies over a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrial measures, and in line with a body of internationally agreed rules, he said. In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must be strengthened, he said. The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises to solve the problem. The United States will try to reduce its large budget deficit and restore competitiveness within its industries. Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expand its domestic growth and rely less on exports. The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth and reduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress in the Canadian economy. Reuter 
HONG KONG DEFENDS CURRENCY LINK WITH U.S. DOLLAR

Hong Kong has not taken unfair advantage of its currency's link with the U.S. Dollar, Hong Kong monetary affairs secretary David Nendick told the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank here. He said: "We have taken the rough with the smooth, having to accept a downward adjustment of our economy in 1985 following a period when the U.S. Dollar was clearly overvalued in world terms, but benefiting as that currency subsequently declined." He said that since the establishment of the link in 1983, Hong Kong's trade had been broadly in balance. This year a modest deficit was expected. "Under the link, Hong Kong's entirely free and open economy continues to adjust quickly to any external imbalances, but the burden of adjustment now falls almost entirely on our domestic interest rates, money supply and price levels," Nendick said. "The relative volatility in these domestic variables is the price we pay for the stability of our currency against the U.S. Dollar," he said. REUTER 
ADB MEETING ENDS, MARKED BY CRITICISM

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) today wound up a three-day meeting which was marked by criticism of the ADB from both rich and poor member nations. In speech after speech, the 20-year-old ADB was charged either with not doing enough to help countries in the region, or with funding projects which were not worthwhile. The attacks often, but not always, broke down along developed and developing country lines. The former, which provide the ADB with money, generally emphasized the need for quality projects. The ADB was not even spared criticism from its host country and largest shareholder, Japan. "I am not 100 pct satisfied with the performance of the ADB," Japanese finance ministry deputy director-general Fumiya Iwasaki told Reuters. He said the Bank had only approved five pct more new loans in 1986 than in 1985. He hoped for a return to the more rapid growth rates of earlier years. "The Asian economy is now changing. The ADB should adapt itself to those changes," he said. But supporters of the ADB said it already was changing, and Iwasaki made it clear Japan welcomed the steps being taken by the ADB's president Masao Fujioka. "So far, we have confidence in Mr Fujioka's leadership," Iwasaki said. To spur demand for loans, the ADB has restructured its country and agricultural departments to enable it to identify the needs of developing member countries more quickly. But some delegates said the ADB was putting too much emphasis on the need to give out more money, and not enough on checking the quality of the projects involved. "The success of the Bank should not be measured by the volume of its lending but by its contribution to the development process," chief U.S. Delegate Charles H. Dallara told the meeting. He said: "Project quality is an area which has attracted attention recently and on which the United States has expressed strong views. Although over the years the majority of ADB loans have been sound, we have had problems with some of the projects brought before the board of directors lately." Australia voiced similar concerns. Australian delegate C. J. Hurford said: "Bad projects benefit neither the Bank nor its borrowers. They damage the Bank's reputation and ultimately lessen support from donor countries and capital markets." There were also criticisms of proposals from developing countries that the ADB make more of its loans dependent on economic reforms in Third World nations. "We are concerned with the Bank's increasing preoccupation with dialogue," said India's delegate, S. Venkitaramanan. "We have expressed our unhappiness with the insistence of multi-lateral agencies on global prescriptions," he said. REUTER 
ADB CHIEF SAYS CHINA LIKELY TO BORROW 300 MLN DLRS

China is likely to borrow up to 300 mln dlrs this year from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), president Masao Fujioka said. The loans would be China's first from the ADB. "I think there will be at least one loan to China this year, and possibly a second," Fujioka told a news conference at the end of the ADB's annual meeting here. Asked how large the loans were likely to be, Fujioka said he thought they would range from 100 mln to 150 mln dlrs each. China is the ADB's newest member, joining in March 1986. China is the third-largest shareholder after Japan and the U.S.. It was elected to the ADB's 12-member board yesterday. Fujioka announced that the ADB's 1989 meeting would be held in Peking. The 1988 meeting will be held in Manila. Fujioka said the ADB would consider delegates' suggestions that it set up a task force of experts to define its future role. The ADB's performance was criticised by both its rich and poor members at the three-day meeting just finished. External experts had carried out a study on ADB policy for the 1980s, Fujioka said. He said a similar study for the 1990s would be useful, but the ADB had no fixed ideas yet. He said the ADB had already responded to members like the U.S., Which urged it to improve analysis of funded projects. "We had already decided that the ADB should strengthen its research capability," Fujioka said. He said ADB lending had declined, but "the amount is not the only thing that counts. We also want to be a catalyst by taking innovative measures like the promotion of the private sector." Fujioka also talked of the struggle between the U.S. And Japan over their voting power in the ADB. Total Japanese contributions to the ADB are higher than those of the U.S., So Japanese delegates asked for their voting power to reflect this. The U.S. Opposed the move. "It is advisable and wise, for institutions like the ADB to be viable, that there be a reasonable relationship between financial contributions and voting power," Fujioka said. But he indicated the problem remained unresolved. Asked if the ADB would respond to a plea by Vietnam to resume lending which was cut off in 1974, Fujioka re-iterated his view that conditions there were not conducive to banking. Fujioka declined to elaborate on Vietnam, but said there had been no pressure from the U.S. Or any other country on the issue. He also spoke about demands by the bank's financiers that it take a more active role in prodding borrowers into making economic policy changes. "The initiative must come from the borrowing country. We don't accept that we impose policy conditions. There must be a two-way consultation," he said. REUTER 
SOVIET UNION UNDECIDED ON ADB MEMBERSHIP

The Soviet Union's first official observer at the Asian Development Bank (ADB) said he came away from this week's ADB annual meeting with a favourable impression but that no decision has been made on whether the Soviet Union should join as a full member. Yurij V. Ponomarev, international managing director of the State Bank, said he will file a formal report when he returns to Moscow, but it will not contain any recommendation on membership. "We haven't started any process with a view toward membership," he said. Ponomarev downplayed the significance of his attendance, saying it only signalled a slight change in attitude by Moscow. Although this is the first time Moscow has attended the ADB's annual meeting as an observer, Soviet bankers have come to meetings in the past as guests, he said. Delegates here saw the Soviet move as part of an overall strategy to strengthen ties with Asia and improve the functioning of the Soviet economy. Ponomarev declined to comment on remarks yesterday by a senior U.S. Official, who warned that Soviet membership in the ADB would cause serious operational problems. "How would the ADB, for instance, use the (Soviet) rouble as a basis for expanding its capital?" asked the U.S. Official, who declined to be identified. Ponomarev said: "It is far too premature to speculate on the potential difficulties that might be involved if we applied for membership." In order to become a member, Moscow would have to gain the backing of two-thirds of the board of governors representing three-quarters of the voting power of member countries. Washington has just over a 12 pct voting share. REUTER 
DAIWA SECURITIES TO OPEN CANADIAN HOUSE

Daiwa Securities Co Ltd, of Tokyo, plans to open a new Canadian company after a June 30 deregulation of the Ontario equity market is implemented, Daiwa Securities general manager for Canada Hajimu Watanabe told Reuters in reply to query. The Toronto Stock Exchange earlier announced Daiwa became the first Japanese company to acquire an exchange seat, paying 361,000 Canadian dlrs, the highest price ever paid. "This is a prelude of our establishment of a new Canadian company," Watanabe said. Watanabe said Daiwa's new Canadian brokerage house will concentrate on investment in Canadian stocks by Japanese investors, Canadians acquiring Japanese equity, and government and corporate financing, mainly in the Canadian bond market. "We have now a huge amount of demand on the part of Japanese investors for Canadian stocks," Watanabe said. "So if we can get membership of the Toronto Stock Exchange, that should support our business very much," he added. Daiwa's application for exchange membership is subject to approval by other members and the Ontario Securities Commission. When asked, Watanabe declined to specify how much capital Daiwa, the world's second largest investment dealer, would invest in its Canadian subsidiary. "It is quite confidential at this moment, but say our main intention is not to create any friction with the Canadian houses," Watanabe said. He said Daiwa could easily set up its new unit with one billion Canadian dlrs of capital, "but we are starting at quite a moderate figure." "But small means quite big in Canadian terms," he added. Daiwa, which established a representative office in Canada in 1980, is ready to open its Canadian house as soon as Ontario security deregulation is implemented on June 30, Watanabe said, adding Daiwa is very pleased with its reception by Canadian regulatory authorities. Watanabe said about 10 pct of Japanese investment in foreign securities goes to Canada, ranking second to the United States which receives about 50 pct. "The Japanese institutional investors feel that it is rather risky to concentrate around the 50 pct" in one country, he said. Japanese institutional investors are trying to diversify to other non-American vehicles, and there are very few candidates that remain safe investment objects, Daiwa's Watanabe added. Investors in Japan are also feeling it is risky to concentrate in fixed income paper, and are looking more towards investment in paper equity and real estate. "So, investment in Canadian paper, especially Canadian equity, should have a great future," Watanabe said. Reuter 
JAPAN VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE EARNS HIGH RETURNS

Companies offering variable life insurance policies, introduced in Japan in October, look set to report sparkling results when they report on fund performance later this month, fund managers at major insurance companies said. The managers told Reuters some insurers showed variable life returns topping 50 pct on an annual basis in the five months to March 31. Industry sources said all 17 Japanese and U.S. Insurers offering variable life policies here have earned returns of more than 10 pct on their investments. Returns on variable life policies, which are paid when policies are surrendered, depend on the performance of funds run by insurers. Managers said strong results are due to the loading of funds into the buoyant Tokyo stock market and into convertible bonds and attractive short-term instruments such as large yen time deposits. Japanese share prices rose 30 pct in absolute terms between November 1 and March 31. Key bond yields fell to around four pct from five pct in the same period. "Variable life avails itself of the times and clients are likely to be attracted after the impressive results to be made public in early June," Ichirou Hayashi, general manager of Nippon Life Insurance Co Ltd's fund management office said. The Finance Ministry does not allow disclosure of insurance company figures for the year ended March 31 until early June. Nippon Life, the largest Japanese insurer, had about 50,000 investors in variable life by end-March while the three U.S. Firms which offer variable life here have a total of some 7,550 investors, fund managers said. Equitable Life Insurance Co Ltd, American Life Insurance Co Ltd and Sony Prudential Life Insurance Co, which is a joint venture between Sony Corp and Prudential Life Assurance of the U.S., Are the three U.S. Insurers offering variable life here. "Although (variable life) appears to be a short-term financial instrument with death benefit, its first priority is to raise as much cash value as it can over the long period," said Ichiro Kono, managing director and chief actuary of Sony Prudential. Variable life guarantees a fixed death benefit. "Variables are also attractive to executives of companies who wish to receive them as retirement funds with options for settlement in annuities," Kono said. Nippon Life's Hayashi said sales of variable life were shaping up well as interest rate consciousness grows. Insurance managers said they expect variables to survive any credit market collapse since the funds should be able to react to interest rate fluctuations more quickly than huge general insurance accounts, assuming fund managers grow more sophisticated in global fund and risk management. Japanese life insurers have cut dividends paid to holders of regular insurance by as much as 0.45 of a percentage point since April 1 due to declining domestic interest rates. Fund managers said regular insurance funds are invested more conservatively with decisions based on long-term strategies. Major life insurers are expected to report huge exchange losses, estimated at over 2,000 billion yen, on foreign investment for 1986/87, they said. "Asset mix is more of a concept for larger funds, not for our variables, especially after the huge currency losses made in the last fiscal year," Hayashi of Nippon Life said. Industry analysts said shifts of funds ahead of tax changes due in October are helping boost the demand for variable life. The government is expected to impose a 20 pct withholding tax on interest from certain instruments including single premium endowment insurance, much of which is maturing now, but variable life will be free of such a tax. But Sony Prudential's Kono said, "A large shift of funds from single premium endowment to variable life is unlikely, because investors in the former are more short-term return-minded, while the latter doesn't guarantee short-term cash value." Sony Prudential and Equitable Life each have three separate variable life accounts. Equitable's funds specialise in Japanese stocks, U.S. Stocks and money market instruments while Sony's covers bonds, stocks and general investment. Japanese insurers have only one variable account each. The Finance Ministry allowed sales of variable life endowment with terms over 10-years and whole life insurance from October 1 last year but allowed single premiums only on the latter. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK REPORTED TO HAVE NO PLAN FOR RATE CUT

Bundesbank Deputy President Helmut Schlesinger said the West German central bank had no plan to cut its three pct discount rate, Nihon Keizai newspaper reported. The financial daily quoted Schlesinger as saying in an interview that the bank would try to maintain current interest rate levels for the time being. He also told the newspaper he saw no need for large-scale intervention in the foreign exchange market because exchange rates are stable. Earlier, Schlesinger told a press conference that the Bundesbank would continue its policy of maintaining short-term interest rates at a low level for currency stability. He also said he was satisfied with the current dollar/mark exchange rate but added that he was not certain if it was ideal for the West German economy. REUTER 
TOKYO EXCHANGE ALLOWS MORE GOLD AND RUBBER BROKERS

The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry (TOCOM) said it will allow five more members to become precious metal brokers, taking the total to 54, and four more members to broke rubber, for a total of 39. An exchange official told Reuters the Ministry of International Trade and Industry is expected to approve the the new brokers by mid-June. The move has been under study since early May in response to requests by non-broker members of the exchange. REUTER 
TOSHIBA FORECASTS 11 PCT RISE IN 1987/88 GROUP NET

Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> expects to report a group net profit of 38 billion yen for the year ending March 31, 1988, up 11.2 pct from a year earlier, assuming an exchange rate of 140 yen to the dollar, a company official said. Osamu Iemura, a senior vice president, told a news conference sales are forecast at 3,500 billion yen, up 5.8 pct. The forecasts are based on expectations of improved sales of office automation equipment, a recovery in semiconductor market prices and an increase in plant exports. Toshiba said earlier that 1986/87 group net profit fell 42.5 pct from a year earlier to 34.18 billion yen, the second consecutive year-on-year drop. Sales fell 1.9 pct to 3,308 billion yen, the first year-on-year sales drop in 21 years. Iemura said the results reflected trade friction over semiconductor exports to the U.S., The yen's sharp rise against the dollar and a drop in exports to China. The 1986/87 foreign exchange loss totalled 145 billion yen, including parent company losses of 120 billion. The average value of the yen against the dollar rose to 161 from 221 a year earlier, he added. Weaker prices for semiconductors and office automation equipment cut total sales 245 billion yen, Iemura said. Group sales of telecommunication and electronic devices, accounting for 36 pct of the total, rose five pct to 1,183 billion yen in 1987/88 from a year earlier, helped by good sales of word processors, workstations, medical equipment, point-of-sales systems and exports of personal computers. Semiconductor sales rose to 410 billion yen from 360 billion a year earlier but fell short of an expected 430 billion. Sales are expected to be 460 billion in 1987/88. Office automation equipment sales rose to 650 billion yen in 1986/87 from 600 billion a year earlier, Iemura said. Sales in 1987/88 are expected to be 695 billion yen, mainly due to good sales of computers in Europe and to expectations the U.S. Will remove its 100 pct import duty on computers. Sales of heavy electric goods, accounting for 26 pct of sales, rose 0.2 pct from a year earlier to 868.14 billion yen. Home electronics sales fell 10 pct to 940.64 billion yen, mainly due to the yen's appreciation against the dollar and a drop in colour television exports to China, Iemura said. Overall 1986/87 overseas sales totalled 1,021 billion yen, down three pct from a year earlier, Iemura said. Overseas sales of telecommunication and electronic devices rose nine pct from a year earlier to 493.90 billion yen, helped by a 80 pct year-on-year rise in computer and computer-related equipment sales. Home appliance sales abroad fell 24 pct to 312.10 billion, mainly due to the yen's appreciation, lower sales to China, and increased competition with newly-industrialised countries. Toshiba reduced the number of divisions to three from four in reaction to market changes, effective April 1. Group sales of telecommunication and electronic devices are estimated at 1,520 billion yen in 1987/88, Iemura said. Home appliance sales are estimated at 1,260 billion yen and heavy electric goods sales at 720 billion. Iemura said group exports to China are expected to rise to 90 billion yen in 1987/88 from 30 billion in 1986/87 due to an increase in sales of generators. Sales to China were down from 70 billion yen in 1985/86 due to a sharp drop in home appliance exports, he said. Group capital spending in 1987/88 will fall to 197 billion yen from 213.30 billion in 1986/87, Iemura said. Of total capital spending, investment in semiconductors will fall to 65 billion from 68 billion. Research and development spending will rise to 217 billion yen from 201.10 billion, he said. REUTER 
IBJ AMORTIZES LOANS TO JAPAN LINE

The Industrial Bank of Japan <IBJT.T> (IBJ) amortized 68 billion yen worth of loans, including the write-off of an unspecified amount of loans, to the <Japan Line Ltd> group in the year ended March 31, an IBJ spokesman said. He declined to comment on a report in the economic daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun that it had written off loans worth 15 billion yen to Japan Line, one of the world's largest tanker operators. Japan Line's current liabilities amounted to 68.98 billion yen at the end of September. In December, Japan Line asked its creditor banks to shelve repayment of 124 billion yen of outstanding loans and about 153 billion in loans to its subsidiaries following the yen's steep rise and the world recession in shipping. REUTER 
JAPAN EXTENDS 24 BILLION YEN LOAN TO BANGLADESH

Japan has extended a 24 billion yen loan to Bangladesh, Finance Ministry officials said. The loan, to be disbursed over two years from next July, is for chemicals, cement, steel and machinery imports and for setting up a power plant in eastern Sylhet district, they said. Terms were not disclosed. The credit brings total Japanese loans and grants to Bangladesh to 441.25 billion yen since 1972, they said. REUTER 
POORER CURRENT PROFITS SEEN FOR JAPAN FIRMS

Poor returns by oil refiners and utilities will drag down average current profits of major Japanese firms in the year ending March 31, Wako Research Institute said. Current profits will drop an average 13.5 pct after a 7.3 pct drop in 1986/87, it said. Oil refiners and utilities face a sharp profit fall after two years of high profits due to the yen's strength, lower world oil prices and reduced interest rates, it said. Sales of all firms are expected to rise 2.3 pct from the previous year when they fell 11.9 pct from a year earlier. The independent institute surveyed 436 firms listed in the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, excluding banks and insurance firms. Excluding the oil refiners and utilities, Wako forecasts that current profits will rise 3.7 pct after a 22.3 pct drop in 1986/87 and a 19.5 pct drop in 1985/86. Electric power firms and gas companies are likely to see 42.5 and 31.6 pct falls in current profits respectively in 1987/88 due to cuts in utility prices to recycle windfall profits made during the yen's rise against the dollar, and due to the recent recovery in world oil prices, the institute said. Current profits of manufacturing industries will rise an average seven pct after a 29.7 pct drop in 1986/87 and a 25.0 pct drop in 1985/86, Wako said. An increase in overseas production and an expected increase in domestic demand will cause the recovery in manufacturing sector profits, it said. REUTER 
SKYLARK TO ISSUE 20 BILLION YEN CONVERTIBLE BOND

Skylark Co Ltd <SKLK.T> said it will issue a 20 billion yen nine-year unsecured convertible bond in the domestic capital market through public placement with Nomura Securities Co Ltd as lead manager. Coupon and conversion price for par-priced bond maturing June 28, 1996, will be set at its board meeting to be held in mid-June and payment is due on July 1, the company said in a statement. Skylark's share price fell 10 yen to 2,880 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. REUTER 
GERMAN CAR FIRMS SEEN PRODUCING SOLID 1987 RESULTS

The West German car industry celebrated its 100th birthday with a record-breaking 1986 performance at home and is due to turn in another set of solid results in 1987. But share market analysts warn it faces continued problems from the strong German mark and predict increasingly aggressive competition in Europe from the Japanese. On the plus side for the industry, which is West Germany's biggest foreign exchange earner, the analysts are confident the technical superiority and innovative qualities of the luxury producers will help them maintain a strong market profile. Most analysts thought Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> would do best this year but expected Dr. Ing. H.C.F. Porsche AG <PSHG.F> to continue its slide because of the weak U.S. Dollar. They were generally optimistic for Bayerische Motoren Werke AG <BMWG.F> (BMW) but some were sceptical it could match record 1986 profits. Views were mixed on Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, but some analysts took comfort from the fact that Europe's leading car maker had apparently put a major currency scandal behind it. VW could be vulnerable as Japanese exporters, suffering from the strength of the yen against the dollar, switched their sales offensive from the U.S. To Europe, they said. Analyst Joseph Rooney with brokers James Capel in London, noted the Japanese drive was coming at a time when the whole European market was expected to contract slightly. But analysts saw most German manufacturers meeting the challenge, even though the Japanese were now starting to focus on the up-market sector. BMW's chairman Eberhard von Kuenheim shrugged off the Japanese drive in an interview with Wirtschaftswoche magazine."I view the move by the Japanese into the top class with a certain equanimity. Not only are we playing on home turf, we also have technical superiority," he said. The car industry benefitted last year from clarification of domestic rules on low-pollution cars, which meant orders put off in 1985 were carried out the following year. Tax cuts generally boosted domestic demand, especially for cars. Domestic registrations leapt by nearly 19 pct to a record 2.8 mln cars. The VDA industry association says this might ease to 2.7 mln in 1987, but predicts another good year. Looking to the future, Daimler has designated 16 billion marks for car sector spending in the next five years. Chairman Werner Breitschwerdt says spending is not aimed at quantity but improving high quality technology and accessories. Analyst Stephen Reitman with Phillips and Drew in London, said Daimler had the best earnings profile of West German producers, with group profits per share rising to 80 marks from 78.8 in 1986. Analysts were more cautious about VW. Reinhard Fischer with Bank in Liechtenstein (BiL) in Frankfurt saw VW's group earnings per share falling to 35 marks in 1987 from 42 in 1986. A recent report from his bank said last year's currency losses were a sign of mismanagement. It stressed heavy losses from VW's Brazilian operations and its Spanish unit, SEAT. VW's first quarter figures also highlighted problems in both the U.S. And Brazil, analysts said. VW reported flat first quarter earnings, except for a 39.2 pct fall in U.S. Sales and Brazilian sales which dived 46.5 pct. Reitman was more optimistic than BiL about VW's 1987 group earnings and, predicting an improvement in both Spain and Brazil, he saw an unchanged 42 marks per share, , He also said that VW now stood to benefit from not hedging against foreign exchange fluctuations. In a May 1 study, he wrote: "One point in VW's favour is that its extraordinary policy of not hedging forward has meant that it will have less far to go in adjusting to current DM/Dollar rates than the other German manufacturers who were to a lesser or greater extent protected up to 1986." Reitman was also reassured by the apparent end of the currency scandal, where allegedly faked forward contracts were not acknowledged by VW's banks. VW fixed final losses from the fraud at 473 mln marks for which provisions were made in 1986. VW's new Audi 80, a sporty model which German media reports say was designed to jazz up Audi's staid "Grandpa" image, contributed significantly to VW's first quarter performance. The 80 doubled its sales against the year-ago level. But the Audi range as a whole has suffered a huge setback in the U.S. Because of an image problem linked to claims of "unintentional acceleration." Von Kuenheim won't be pinned down on BMW's 1987 profits, but at a news conference he emphasised 1986 earnings were a record high. Without referring to 1987, he added: "If profits are less in one year or the other they will still be good." Rooney said group profits per share, which BMW does not publish, would rise to 62.5 marks this year. Some analysts put the 1986 group profit at 60 marks, a figure BMW does not deny. But Reitman was more pessimistic, predicting 50 marks per share in 1987, and a return to 60 next year. He said: "BMW will be the story of 1988," when it plans to launch an updated version of its Five series. BMW also has a big investment programme under way and Bil's Fischer said depreciations could affect earnings. Other analysts pointed to possible hedging problems and Reitman noted a 2.10 marks to the dollar hedge expired this September. Reitman said the outlook for Porsche was bearish for the year to end-July, 1987. Porsche's 1985/86 group profits at 84 marks per share fell 30 pct from the record 120 marks in 1984/85 and Reitman saw 60 marks in 1986/87. "With the U.S. Currently accounting for 63 pct of unit sales (this is expected to fall to 60 pct in the full year 1986/87) Porsche's earnings remain uncomfortably exposed to the DM/dollar relationship," he said. REUTER 
BAA PLC UNIT WINS KANSAI AIRPORT CONTRACT

<British Airport Services Ltd> (BAS) has concluded an 18 mln yen contract with the <Kansai International Airport Co Ltd> for consulting work on the terminal at a new airport to be built in western Japan, the airport company said in a statement. The contract is the first to be awarded to a British company and follows the award of a 200,000 dlr consultancy contract to a division of the U.S-based <Bechtel International Corp> in consortium with six Japanese companies, a company spokesman told Reuters. BAS is a subsidiary of <BAA Plc>, the former British Airports Authority. The six-billion dlr project to build the airport has been a major source of friction with the U.S. And the European Community who have put pressure on Japan to allow foreign companies to compete with domestic firms in building it. REUTER 
PEMEX OFFICIAL SAYS OPEC OUTPUT CRITICAL TO PRICE

Crude oil prices could remain around 18 dlrs a barrel until the end of the year, but OPEC's decision on output at its next meeting would be the critical factor, an official of Mexico's state oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex), told a group of Japanese businessmen. Adrian Lajous, Pemex' executive vice president of international trade, said current OPEC output already appeared to be very near the 16.6 mln barrel per day level it set itself for the third quarter. "Production is surging ahead of what was originally planned, while demand is growing more slowly than envisaged a few months ago," he said. He said OPEC had to look very carefully at what level of production in the third quarter would effectively sustain the 18 dlrs price, and that an increase to what had originally been envisaged might soften price levels. The 13-member cartel is scheduled to meet on June 25 in Vienna to review its December accord on prices and output. "I hope OPEC will follow a very conservative attitude in terms of volume decisions," Lajous said. A repetition of what happened last year, when OPEC boosted output and sent oil prices tumbling down below 10 dlrs, is always there as a possibility, he said. "I hope never again to go through the trauma of 1986. I expect other oil exporters have learned their lessons and discipline will be maintained," he said. Lajous said there was still excess supply and as long as this remains there will be a tendency to instability in oil markets, but prices should remain around 18 to 19 dlrs during 1987 if output remains under control. He said Saudi King Fahd's remarks last month, that increased production was not so important as long as incomes would not be affected by the output, were "very relevant and welcome from such a powerful producer." REUTER 
NO REASON TO CUT RATES - BUNDESBANK'S SCHLESINGER

Bundesbank vice president Helmut Schlesinger said he saw no reason to lower interest rates now. With money supply growth showing no sign of slowing down in May and the dollar stable or even rising against the mark, Schlesinger told Reuters that he was not convinced that a further cut in interest rates was needed. The economy is picking up, after contracting by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter from the fourth, he added. "We may have an increase in gnp starting in the second quarter," he said in an interview. Concerned by the first quarter downturn, the U.S. Has been pressing West Germany to pump up its economy and boost its imports, either through fiscal or monetary policy. Schlesinger said the contraction in the first quarter was mainly due to adverse weather conditions, just as occured in 1986. Year-on-year growth was thus about two pct. He estimated that economic growth for the year as a whole would probably be between one and two pct. "It is not a question of monetary conditions if domestic demand does not grow strongly," he said, noting that interest rates are at historically low levels and funds are ample. Schlesinger said he saw no signs that central bank money stock growth was slowing down from its recent year-on-year pace of 7-1/2 to eight pct, well above the Bundesbank's three to six pct target. He said the target could still be achieved but much will depend on the direction of long-term capital flows. Heavy inflows, particularly in January around the time of the EMS revaluation, boosted domestic money supply. "There is still a certain hope that the net inflow of foreign money can be diminished or can even be a little bit reversed," Schlesinger said. A major reason for the inflows was the market's conviction that the mark was headed higher. "As we can see from the market, expectations for a further revaluation of the deutschemark have diminished," Schlesinger said. The recent widening of interest rate differentials, the fact that the dollar has fallen sharply in a very short period and an improvement in real trade balances have all combined towards stabilizing the dollar, he said. Asked if central banks might act to prevent a sharp dollar rise, as the U.S. Did in March when the dollar rose above 1.87 marks, he said this would depend on the circumstances. At midday here, the dollar stood at 1.8340/45 marks. "Central banks are always in contact about these fluctuations but I cannot give any answer how they would react," Schelsinger said. "One has to look at how it (the market) is moving," he said, adding, "It is not only our own case, it is also the American case." He said that the West German export industry has been hit hard by the dollar's sharp fall and would probably like to see some correction now. "But it wouldn't be good to have short-term fluctuations," he said. "Let us wait and see." "It is mainly the strength of the (dollar) fall in a very short period which was a little bit of a shock, than the level (of rates) as such," Schlesinger said. The sharp rise of the mark, coupled with weak prices of such key commodities as oil, had a favourable impact on West German inflation down year. Although there have recently been signs of inflation picking up, he said that this was due to changes in key commodity prices. The underlying inflation rate this year would be unchanged, at about one to 1-1/2 pct, he said. Schlesinger said the problem of rapid money supply growth was longer term, in that the economy was building up the potential for a possible eventual resurgence of inflation. The above-target growth of money supply over the past 16 months had prompted some discussion of the usefulness of targets themselves, a matter which might be taken up at the mid-year meeting of the Bundesbank's council, Schlesigner said. But he added: "I don't see any great pressure to go away from it." REUTER 
JAPAN READY TO USE DIPLOMACY FOR GULF SECURITY

Japan was ready to use diplomacy to help maintain the security of the Gulf, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said. But he told reporters Japan should not cut its lines of communication with Iran and Iraq because its policy was to take a broad political stance. Officials of the foreign ministry said Japan had maintained good relations with both Iran and Iraq, which have been at war since September 1980. Last week Nakasone ruled out Japanese military or financial help to patrol the waters of the Gulf. About 60 pct of Japan's crude oil passes through the waterway. President Reagan said yesterday the threat to oil routes in the Gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq was high on the agenda for next week's G-7 summit in Venice. Reagan has approved plans for the United States to step up its naval presence in the Gulf despite congressional expressions of concern and he has called on U.S. Allies to help maintain freedom of navigation. Japan's constitution prevents its armed forces from being deployed overseas. Nakasone has said that Washington understands this problem. REUTER 
FUJITSU GROUP FORECASTS 75 PCT RISE IN NET PROFITS

Fujitsu Ltd <ITSU.T> has forecast that group net profits will rise 75.9 pct in the current year to 38 billion yen and current profits will rise 72.6 pct to 65 billion, the company said in its earnings statement. Sales are expected to rise 14 pct to 2,040 billion yen in the same period, it said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO USE TAX CARRY-OVER TO HELP FUND PACKAGE

Government tax revenues for the 1986/87 year ended March 31 were more than 600 billion yen higher than forecast and could be used to help fund the economic package announced last week, Finance Ministry sources said. The final figure for 1986/87 will not be available until next month, but some local newspapers speculated that the carryover could be as much as 1,000 billion yen. The government is due to introduce a supplementary budget during an extarordinary parliamentary session expected to start in July. The budget will be used to finance the central government share of last Friday's emergency economic package. That package totalled more than 6,000 billion yen, including more than 1,000 billion in tax cuts. Government officials including Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa have previously said possible revenue sources for tax cuts include the tax revenue carryover from 1986/87 and proceeds from the sale of shares in the privatized Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. The sale of 1.95 mln NTT shares in 1986/87 left about 450 billion yen available for use as a revenue source for tax cuts, the sources said. Another 1.95 mln are expected to be sold in the current fiscal year. REUTER 
FUJITSU SAYS SOME ISSUES RESOLVED IN IBM DISPUTE

Fujitsu Ltd <ITSU.T> and International Business Machines Corp <IBM.N> (IBM) had resolved some issues in a longstanding dispute over software copyright protection, Fujitsu said in a prospectus for a warrant bond recently issued in London. The dispute involved questions of contractual interpretation arising from a 1983 agreement between the companies, the prospectus said. Under question was how much software information the firms were obliged to disclose to each other. The case had been before the American Arbitration Association (AAA) since 1985. "By subsequent agreements, the parties have resolved some of the issues and have established procedures to resolve presently outstanding disputes with the involvement of the members of the panel of arbitrators," the prospectus said. "The Company is not in a position to predict with certainty the outcome of this process and its effect on the future results or operations, financial or otherwise, of the Group," it said. A Fujitsu spokeswoman declined to comment on the prospectus, noting the dispute remained under arbitration by the AAA. An IBM spokesman here also declined comment. Last November the AAA ordered both companies to maintain the confidentiality of the arbitration proceedings and said that both Fujitsu and IBM had agreed that no additional comment on the subject be made. Late last year, IBM and Hitachi Ltd <HIT.T> said they had agreed to revise a separate 1983 agreement which arose out of software disputes similar to those between Fujitsu and IBM. REUTER 
JAPAN RAISES LIMITS ON NON-LIFE INSURERS' LENDING

The Finance Ministry would raise lending limits on local non-life insurance firms to meet the increasing need for efficient fund management, a ministry spokesman said. He said the allowable non-collateral lending limits would be increased to 30 pct of each insurer's total assets from 25 pct and that overseas subsidiaries will be made eligible as borrowers. The lending limit for non-life insurers which do not satisfy criteria for making non-collateral loans would be expanded to three pct of total assets from one pct. The upper limit of lending of securities by non-life insurance companies, now set at five pct of each insurer's total assets would be abolished, the official said. This will enable such lending by non-life insurers to be included in the separate category of money lending, which is limited to 55 pct of the total assets of each insurer. Approvals for the changes, which must be given to each insurer on application, were expected to begin soon, possibly as early as next week. REUTER 
JAPAN TO SET MICROCHIP PRODUCTION GUIDELINES

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) said it would issue guidelines later this month for microchip production during the third quarter. A MITI official said it was too early to say if the guidelines would call for reductions following similar government requests in the first two quarters of 1987. "This is not a matter which should be decided on a political basis alone," the official told Reuters. MITI asked that production of 256 kilobit dynamic random access memory chips and erasable programmable read only memory chips be cut by 11 pct during the April/June quarter. Production was cut back 10 pct in the first quarter and industry analysts said the reductions have boosted prices. U.S. And Japanese officials met in Washington last week to discuss the removal of U.S. Sanctions against some Japanese exports but both sides agreed not to reveal the outcome of the talks, the MITI official added. Washington imposed the sanctions in April, saying Tokyo had failed to abide by a 1986 pact on microchip trade. REUTER 
JAPAN HIGHWAY CORP PLANS TO ISSUE ECU BOND

Japan Highway Public Corp planned to issue a seven-year government-guaranteed 120 mln European currency unit (ecu) bond with coupon at 7.375 pct late this month, a corporation spokeman told Reuters. Issue price would be 101.125 pct to yield 7.165 pct. Lead manager was Bank of Tokyo Capital Market Ltd, a subsidiary of the Bank of Tokyo in Britain and co-lead manager Credit Commercial de France, he added. He declined to give other details. REUTER 
NAKASONE, SUMITA AGREE RATE CUT NOT APPROPRIATE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone today agreed with Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita that a further cut in the discount rate was not appropriate at present, central bank sources said. They told Reuters the two discussed the subject at a routine meeting. Sumita told Nakasone he did not feel a rate cut was appropriate and Nakasone expressed his understanding, the sources said. Currency dealers have speculated that Japan and West Germany might come under pressure at next week's Venice summit to cut interest rates to boost their economies. Nakasone, but not Sumita, is due to attend the summit. REUTER 
JAPAN RAISES LIMITS ON NON-LIFE INSURERS' LENDING

The Finance Ministry would raise lending limits on local non-life insurance firms to meet the increasing need for efficient fund management, a ministry spokesman said. He said the allowable non-collateral lending limits would be increased to 30 pct of each insurer's total assets from 25 pct and that overseas subsidiaries will be made eligible as borrowers. The lending limit for non-life insurers which do not satisfy criteria for making non-collateral loans would be expanded to three pct of total assets from one pct. The upper limit of lending of securities by non-life insurance companies, now set at five pct of each insurer's total assets would be abolished, the official said. This will enable such lending by non-life insurers to be included in the separate category of money lending, which is limited to 55 pct of the total assets of each insurer. Approvals for the changes, which must be given to each insurer on application, were expected to begin soon, possibly as early as next week. REUTER 
JAPAN TO USE TAX CARRY-OVER TO HELP FUND PACKAGE

Government tax revenues for the 1986/87 year ended March 31 were more than 600 billion yen higher than forecast and could be used to help fund the economic package announced last week, Finance Ministry sources said. The final figure for 1986/87 will not be available until next month, but some local newspapers speculated that the carryover could be as much as 1,000 billion yen. The government is due to introduce a supplementary budget during an extarordinary parliamentary session expected to start in July. The budget will be used to finance the central government share of last Friday's emergency economic package. That package totalled more than 6,000 billion yen, including more than 1,000 billion in tax cuts. Government officials including Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa have previously said possible revenue sources for tax cuts include the tax revenue carryover from 1986/87 and proceeds from the sale of shares in the privatized Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. The sale of 1.95 mln NTT shares in 1986/87 left about 450 billion yen available for use as a revenue source for tax cuts, the sources said. Another 1.95 mln are expected to be sold in the current fiscal year. REUTER 
JAPAN CONCERNED AT EC TRADE THREATS - MINISTER

Japan is disappointed at the recent threats of trade retaliation from the European Community (EC) just as the trade situation between the two is improving, Japanese Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura said. "I am deeply concerned that the EC has moved to take a harsher line toward Japan despite this tangible improvement," he said in a speech prepared for delivery at the opening of a new centre designed to improve understanding between the two sides. Last week, foreign ministers of the 12 EC nations agreed to impose tariffs on a range of unspecified Japanese electrical goods unless Tokyo opened its markets more to EC exports. Tamura referred to a 55 pct rise in Japanese imports of EC manufactured goods in the year ended March 31. "I feel this is a strong step on the road to balance through expansion." "While I do not deny the existence of the trade deficit between Japan and the EC, I believe it should be rectified not by reducing trade through import restrictions or export restraints, but by expanding the (overall) trade," Tamura said. REUTER 
JAPANESE FARMERS PROTEST OPENING MARKETS

Thousands of farmers gathered in central Tokyo to urge the government to stand firm against foreign pressure for further opening up of Japan's markets to foreign agricultural products, union officials said. Officials of the Central Union of Agricultural Cooperatives said about 5,000 representatives from 4,200 farming groups joined the demonstration. The organisers said the farmers demanded that the government should avoid easy compromises on liberalising agricultural imports at next week's economic summit in Venice. The United States and the European Community want Japan to remove tariffs and quotas to help cut their trade deficits with Japan. Under a banner reading "The government and parliament must not sacrifice farmers," the demonstrators adopted a declaration saying they would fight any unreasonable moves to open Japanese markets to foreign agricultural products. An agriculture ministry official said Japan and the United States were expected to hold talks on Japanese import ceilings for U.S. Beef and citrus fruit in September. Reuter 
MATSUSHITA IN JOINT VENTURE WITH FORD, MAZDA

Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T>, Mazda Motor Corp <MAZT.T> and Ford Motor Co <F> have signed an agreement to set up a joint venture to make car air conditioners in Japan, Matsushita said in a statement. The new venture, <Japan Climate Systems Corp> will be capitalised at 1.5 billion yen, and the three partners will hold equal shares. The partners will invest 3.6 billion yen in constructing a plant in Hiroshima, due for completion in late 1988. The plant will initially make 100,000 air conditioners a year for Mazda, it said. REUTER 
MATSUSHITA BRAZIL JOINT VENTURE TO MAKE VTRS

A Matsushita Electric Co Ltd <MC.T> joint venture will make VHS-format video tape recorders (vtrs) in Brazil for the domestic market in the face of government quotas on vtr imports, a Matsushita spokesman told Reuters. <Springer National de Amazonia SA> will start output in early 1988 at a rate of 20,000 vtrs the first year, he said. Springer National, located in Manaus and capitalised at 89.93 mln cruzeiros, is owned 51 pct by <Springer SA> of Brazil and 49 pct by Matsushita unit <National do Brasil Ltd>. It was formed in July 1981 to make colour televisions, audio equipment and microwave ovens. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAYS DOLLAR FALL ONLY TEMPORARY

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said the dollar's sharp fall against the yen overnight was only temporary. The dollar dropped sharply in New York after news that Paul Volcker would step down as chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Nakasone told reporters he did not expect U.S. Policy to change after Volcker steps down. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS UP TO 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers have bought 3,000 to 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed, trade sources said. Delivery dates and price details were not available. Reuter 
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS DOLLAR SHOULD BE ABOVE 170 YEN

The dollar should worth more than 170 yen based on purchasing power parity, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) said in its annual white paper on international trade. Using 1973 as a base year, the ministry said inflation differentials pointed to a yen/dollar rate of 172 in fourth quarter 1986. The dollar opened here today at 144.90 yen. MITI also said the so-called "J-curve" and the drop in oil prices together accounted for 33.2 billion dlrs of the 36.6 billion dlr rise in Japan's trade surplus last year. On a customs cleared basis, the Japanese trade surplus rose to a record 82.66 billion dlrs last year. The ministry said the fall in oil prices accounted for 16.5 billion dlrs and the "J-curve" 17.2 billion dlrs of the rise in the 1986 surplus. Analyzing the expansion in Japan's trade imbalance in recent years, MITI calculated that 37 pct of it could be accounted for by exchange rates, 24 pct by differences in economic growth rates between Japan and other countries, and 36 pct by so-called price elasticities of imports and exports. Analyzing the expansion in the U.S. Trade deficit from 1982 to 1985, the ministry said 24 pct was accounted for by exchange rates, 34 pct by differences in the income elasticity of imports and exports and 39 pct by differences in economic growth rates. The figures do not tally to 100 pct because other minor factors have been left out. "One index of trade structure, the income elasticity of exports and imports, shows that the U.S. Is more likely to experience increases in imports, while Japan is structurally predisposed to growth in exports," MITI said. Structural adjustment is already underway in Japan, under the impact of the strong yen, MITI said. Japanese companies are stepping up their imports and expanding capacity overseas. Japanese consumer attitudes are also changing. The ministry cited a survey showing that price was now the number one factor in the purchase of imports from the U.S. And Western Europe, replacing design and brand reputations. "The smooth adjustment of the economic structure calls for measures to address the needs of affected firms," it said. "Whole industries have felt the pinch and employment is expected to suffer." "Sustained economic growth, led by domestic demand, will also be an essential condition," the ministry said. It said four structural factors have contributed to the growth of the U.S. Trade deficit in recent years -- a decline in U.S. Industrial competitiveness, insufficient productive capacity, an increase in foreign procurement by U.S. Companies and short-sighted U.S. Management attitudes. "While (U.S.) exports have picked up somewhat with the dollar's fall in value, no marked improvements have appeared in the import picture," MITI said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS JAPANESE ECONOMY BOTTOMED OUT

The Japanese economy has bottomed out after an extended period of stagnation, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference. But he said he was not too optimistic about the state of the economy as the employment situation was still shaky in certain regions of the country. Yesterday, the Finance Ministry said its quarterly corporate survey showed that the economy was showing increasing signs of recovery. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 50,000 TONNES OF CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers have so far bought 50,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for shipment in late July/August and total purchases for the period are likely to be around 130,000 tonnes, trade sources said. Crushers reduced their Canadian purchases for late June and July to 111,000 from 120,000 tonnes due to seasonal maintenance work at oil mills. But estimated crushers' buying for July/August was slightly above monthly average and is likely to keep to this level for a while due to a better crushing margin compared with that of soybeans, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN GNP RISES 1.2 PCT IN JANUARY/MARCH

Japan's gross national product (gnp) rose a real 1.2 pct in the January/March quarter after a downwardly revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous three months, the Economic Planning Agency said. The October/December rise was originally put at 0.8 pct. For the fiscal year ended last March 31, gnp rose 2.6 pct, after a 4.3 pct increase in 1985/86. Last year's performance was the worst since 1974/75, when gnp contracted by 0.4 pct, and was below the government's revised three pct forecast. Economists said the strong yen was largely to blame for the slowdown in economic growth in 1986/87. Domestic demand increased 0.7 pct in the January/March quarter and 4.3 pct in the fiscal year, compared with growth of 0.6 pct in October/December and 3.7 pct in 1985/86. The annualized growth rate in the January/March quarter accelerated to 4.9 pct, from 2.9 pct in October/December. In nominal terms, gnp rose 0.7 pct in January/March, after a 0.5 pct October/December rise, reflecting lower prices. Domestic demand contributed 0.7 percentage point to real gnp growth in January/March, while foreign trade added 0.5 point. In October/December domestic demand contributed 0.6 point, while foreign trade added 0.2 point. Of the 0.5 point contribution of foreign trade to gnp last quarter, rising exports accounted for 0.3 point and falling imports contributed 0.2. Total export volume rose 2.0 pct quarter-on-quarter in January/March, while imports fell 1.2 pct. Of the 0.7 point contribution of domestic demand to January/March gnp growth, the private sector accounted for 1.1 point while the public sector knocked off 0.4. The private sector contribution included 0.4 point for corporate capital outlays and 1.0 for consumer spending, while destocking subtracted 0.3 point. In 1986/87, domestic demand contributed 4.1 percentage points to growth while foreign trade knocked off 1.5 points. In 1985/86, the domestic demand contribution was 3.6 points and foreign trade 0.7 point. REUTER 
JAPAN MAY MONEY SUPPLY UP 10.2 PCT

Japan's broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificates of deposit (CD) jumped a preliminary 10.2 pct in May from a year earlier, the Bank of Japan said. The increase is the largest year-on-year rise since March 1982 when the money supply gained 10.5 pct. The money supply had increased 9.8 pct in April. The seasonally adjusted average in May rose 1.0 pct from the previous month. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs were an average 347,200 billion yen in May against 345,500 billion in April. REUTER 
JAPAN TRUCK MAKERS TO CURB EXPORTS TO NORTH KOREA

All four Japanese makers of large trucks will stop exports to North Korea following the issue of Japanese government guidance, company spokesmen told Reuters. The move responds to the U.S. Government's expression of concern that North Korea was using Japanese-made trucks as missile launching pads, they said. <Nissan Diesel Motor Co Ltd> shipped 156 vehicles including large and mid-sized trucks and buses to North Korea in 1986 while Isuzu Motors Ltd <ISUM.T> exported more than 100 six to eight-tonne trucks in 1986, company spokesmen said. A spokesman for Mitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> said it had almost no trade with North Korea last year. <Hino Motors Ltd> shipped 28 five-tonne trucks in 1986, a company spokesman said. REUTER 
ASEAN SEES CLOSER ECONOMIC TIES WITH JAPAN

Foreign Ministers of the Association of South-east Asian Nations (ASEAN) said they expect closer economic ties with Japan. A communique issued at the end of a two-day ministerial meeting said Asean hoped for greater Japanese investment in the region, better access for Asean products in the Japanese market and larger numbers of visiting Japanese tourists. The ministers are due to start four days of talks tomorrow with officials of the U.S., Japan, the European Community, New Zealand, Australia and Canada, including Secretary of State George Shultz and Japan's Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari. The Asean communique noted Japan's large trade surplus, which it said would enable Tokyo to play a greater role in the economic development of ASEAN and in facilitating closer ASEAN economic cooperation. "Japan could also help to facilitate the flow of Japanese investments to ASEAN through the provision of attractive financial assistance and incentives for its private sector," it said. The communique also welcomed President Reagan's firm action in vetoing trade protectionist measures in the Congress. The communique said the ASEAN ministers were concerned over the proliferation of protectionist policies, pressures and measures in developed countries, the continued depressed level of commodity prices, the instability of exchange rates and the lack of a comprehensive solution to the world debt situation. REUTER 
MITSUBISHI HEAVY BUILDS ENERGY-SAVING TANKER

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> said it began building the world's most advanced energy-saving tanker, which consumes only 48 tonnes of fuel oil a day. Construction of the 258,000 dwt VLCC (very large crude carrier) Nisseki Maru for <Tokyo Tanker Co Ltd>, a shipping arm of Nippon Oil Co Ltd <NPOL.T>, is expected to be completed in April 1988. It would run on the Japan/Gulf route, a company statement said. The statement gave no other details. Mitsubishi Heavy last year finished building a vlcc of similar size, but which consumed 57 tonnes of fuel a day. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN MAY EXPAND BROKER CALL MARKET

The Bank of Japan is considering expanding the 60 billion yen daily limit on each securities firm's outstanding transactions in the yen call market at the request of the securities industry, Bank of Japan sources said. But before doing this, the Bank is waiting to see the effect on brokers' fund raising of the change, effective in August, to a shorter settlement period for cash bond transactions, the sources said. REUTER 
TOYOTA LIKELY TO ISSUE 800 MLN DLR WARRANT BOND

Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> is likely to raise 800 mln dlrs through a Eurodollar bond with warrants in mid-July, underwriting sources said. A final official decision on the issue has yet to be made and detailed terms will be announced later, they added. The funds are likely to be used for investments to increase productivity both domestically and abroad, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN OFFICIALS SAY WORST MAY BE OVER FOR ECONOMY

Government officials said the worst may be over for the Japanese economy, after today's news of stronger than expected growth in the January/March period. But private economists were not so sure and said the economy was unlikely to achieve the government's 3.5 pct growth forecast in the current fiscal year ending next March. As already reported, GNP rose 1.2 pct in the January/March quarter, after a revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous three months. For the fiscal year that ended last March 31, GNP growth slowed to 2.6 pct from 4.3 pct in 1985/86. The government economists acknowledged that the improved export performance in the January/March quarter was unlikely to be repeated. The volume of exports during the period was up two pct from the previous three months. The yen's rise in April to about 140 to the dollar from 150 probably resulted in a fall in exports in the April/June quarter, they said. However, given the yen's recent stability, stepped-up domestic demand should work as a driving force to push the economy onto a path of sustainable growth, they said. Many private economists, though, doubt that the economy will achieve the government's 3.5 pct growth forecast for the 1987/88 year. Growth in 1986/87 also fell short of the government's forecast, which was revised downwards to three pct last December from an original four pct. Domestic demand as a whole is not strong enough, except for housing, said Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute. Consumer spending is likely to remain weak as the growth in nominal income stays low, he added. The rise in consumer spending in the January-March quarter was simply a reflection of the contraction that occurred in the preceding three months, Takahashi said. Private capital spending in the quarter looked strong but this was primarily because utility companies brought forward their 1987/88 capital investment plans into the final quarter of 1986/87 in line with the government's economic stimulation package announced last fall, he said. Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank chief economist Kosaku Furuta said he was unable to say the economy has bottomed out, but added he expects increasing signs of recovery in the coming months. Destocking is coming to an end and companies are starting to rebuild inventories, Furuta said. Housing is expected to remain buoyant, backed up by lower interest rates as well as government policies to stimulate the sector, he said. The government's recently unveiled 6,000 billion yen economic package will also help the economy. But he said that the economy was unlikely to achieve the government's 3.5 pct forecast for 1987/88, although growth might come close to three pct. REUTER 
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS TO LIBERALISE FARM MARKET

Japan has no plans to liberalise its farm markets, but will try to narrow the gap between the price of farm products at home and overseas, Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said. He told reporters the move is aimed at deflecting criticism of Japanese protectionism on its agricultural goods. But Kato said he has no plans to start bilateral trade talks with the United States over rice, Japan's staple food. Washington has called Tokyo's rice policy an extreme example of protectionism and has demanded access for U.S. Growers to the Japanese market. This is closed to imports except in emergency. Kato said Japanese farmers should however "shed some blood," to relieve the dangerous state of international farm trade. His comments precede a meeting on July 1 and 2 of the Rice Price Council at which the government advisory body will discuss the 1987 crop producer rice price. Kato said he welcomed the outcome of last week's recent summit of leaders of leading industrialised democracies in Venice and of farm trade talks at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in May. Ministers at both conferences agreed on the long-term need to cut subsidies worldwide, Kato said. Kato said that Japan is not the only country to protect producers. He said the United States spends some 25.8 billion dlrs a year to support producer prices and on its export enhancement program and the EC 21.7 billion, while Japan spends only 2.9 billion. He said that although Japan provides the world's highest level of subsidies per acre, its subsidy per farm family was several times lower than in the United States. Expressing concern about growing protectionist moves in U.S. Congress, he said Japan should make efforts to prevent farm trade issues between the two countries from becoming a factor increasing protectionism in the United States. Japan and the United States are holding panel discussions at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade over Japan's import restrictions on 12 farm items. Bilateral talks on beef and citrus trade in the period from next April are due to start this autumn. REUTER 
JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS FALL IN MAY

New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in May fell to five vessels totalling 188,900 gross tons (gt) from eight ships of 314,000 gt in April, against four ships of 104,500 gt a year earlier, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. The backlog of orders at end-May was 122 ships of 3.70 mln gt against 125 ships of 3.73 mln at end-April and 233 ships of 5.99 mln a year ago, an association official said. The world shipping recession and the yen's appreciation against the dollar depressed May orders, he said. REUTER 
BARCLAYS SEES GROWTH IN TRAVELLERS CHEQUES

Barclays Plc <BCS.L> expects the global travellers cheque industry to grow three to six pct a year in the next five to 10 years despite growing competition from credit cards, divisional manager K.S. Nicklin said. He said the bank expected the size of the market to increase to between 39 and 40 billion dlrs in 1987 from 37 to 38 billion in 1986 because of worldwide economic recovery. He said China, the Gulf states, South America and Japan would be areas for growth. Middle-income groups in the U.S. And Canada would continue to use travellers cheques for overseas trips rather than credit cards. REUTER 
JAPAN 1986/87 COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT UP 2.3 PCT

Japanese compound feed output rose 2.3 pct to 25.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 ended March 31 from 25.23 mln a year earlier, the Agriculture Ministry said. The marginal rise reflected slight growth in demand for poultry raising and a moderate increase in demand for beef cattle raising, Ministry officials said. Compound feed sales totalled 26.01 mln tonnes in 1986/87 against 25.40 mln a year ago, while end-March stocks were 217,554 tonnes against 224,101. Corn use in feed output in 1986/87 rose to 11.71 mln tonnes from 11.02 mln a year earlier due to low import prices. The officials said corn imports rose because the world surplus and the yen's strength against the dollar reduced Chicago prices. The corn compounding ratio rose to 45.2 pct in 1986/87 from 43.4 pct a year earlier. Sorghum use rose marginally to 4.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 from 4.79 mln, but the compounding ratio fell to 18.5 pct from 18.9 pct because of greater corn use. Higher import prices due to poor harvests last year in major producing nations such as Argentina made feed makers reluctant to use sorghum. Soybean meal use fell to 2.58 mln tonnes from 2.63 mln and the compounding ratio declined to 10.0 pct from 10.3 pct. The drop in soybean meal consumption resulted from increased use of cheaper rapeseed meal, the officials said. Rapeseed consumption in 1986/87 was 563,889 tonnes against 528,152 a year earlier. The compounding ratio rose to 2.2 pct from 2.1 pct. REUTER 
CANADIAN MINES AGREE TO CUT COAL PRICE

Members of the Bull Moose coking coal mine in British Columbia, Canada, agreed to cut the base price they charge Japanese steelmakers to 91.77 Canadian dlrs a tonne FOB for the year from April 1, down 14 dlrs from 1986/87, an official at a company involved in the deal said. The Nippon Kokan KK <NKKT.T> official said the cut was agreed after five months of talks between <Teck Corp>, <Rornex Mining Corp Ltd> and <Nissho Iwai Coal Development (Canada) Ltd>. He said the Japanese side would continue to ask the miners to improve the quality of Bull Moose coal's ash specification. Japanese steel mills and several Canadian exporters including the sellers of Bull Moose coal have had several rounds of negotiations on coking coal base prices this year, industry sources said. The Japanese steel firms started a new round of base price talks with <Quintette Coals Ltd> yesterday, while discussions with <Gregg River Co Ltd> will be held later this month, they said. Nissho Iwai Coal is a unit of <Nissho Iwai Corp> of Japan. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow 200 billion yen in financing bills through 35-day repurchase agreements maturing July 24 to help mop up a projected money market surplus, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.6005 against today's one-month commercial bill discount rate of 3.5625 pct and one-month certificate of deposit rate of 3.98/86 pct. Traders estimate a 300 billion yen surplus due to tax allocations to local governments and public entities. The operation will put outstanding bill supplies at about 2,000 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN FINISHING UP WORK ON SUPPLEMENTARY BUDGET

The Finance Ministry is putting the finishing touches on a roughly 2,000 billion yen supplementary budget for 1987/88 and has started to turn its attention to next year's main budget, ministry officials said. The supplementary budget is designed to help finance the 6,000 billion yen emergency economic package the government unveiled last month to boost domestic demand. Ministry officials said the government would issue about 1,300 billion yen in construction bonds to help pay for the increased public investment set out in the emergency package. The rest of the supplementary budget will be financed by 450 billion yen in proceeds from last year's sale of shares in Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp (NTT) and by higher than expected 1986/87 tax revenues, officials said. One official said the carry-over of tax revenues into the 1987/88 fiscal year that began on April 1 might be more than 1,000 billion yen. Soaring land and share prices have boosted receipts, especially from securities and land taxes. With less than half of the carry-over likely to be used in the current supplementary budget, the rest will be available for a second supplementary budget expected later this year. The second supplementary budget will be used to finance the government's wage bill, which will not be known until after wage talks later this year, one official said. The government must also finance the tax cut of more than 1,000 billion yen which it promised in its emergency package but which will not be contained in the first supplementary budget, due to be presented to parliament next month. The Finance Ministry's budget bureau is hoping the tax carry-over and higher than expected revenues again this year will be enough to finance the second supplementary budget, he said. Officials said the Finance Ministry does not want to issue deficit-financing bonds or use the extra proceeds from this year's NTT share sale to fund the second supplementary budget. Besides the first supplementary budget, the government also intends to introduce a new tax reform bill to parliament during the upcoming extraordinary session, officials said. The government was forced to abandon its first tax reform bill due to strong opposition to its plan to introduce a five pct sales tax. The sales tax was designed to help finance cuts in individual and corporate income taxes. The new bill will present the 1,000 billion yen-plus tax cut contained in the emergency package as the first step to an overhaul of the country's tax system, officials said. It will also contain a controversial plan to phase out tax breaks on savings, although it may not take effect in October as originally planned, they said. Looking ahead to next year's main budget, the Finance Ministry is beginning to debate whether to abandon its so-called minus ceiling for public investment. That policy calls on government departments to cut public investment spending by five pct per year. Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo said recently the policy would be suspended in 1988/89, pending a recommendation from the government's administrative reform council. The ruling Liberal Democratic Party said in April that budget request guidelines for invesment expenditures would be reviewed. But some officials at the Finance Ministry's budget bureau said they were hopeful the policy would be retained. They fear that a suspension of the guidelines for public investment could lead to increased pressure on the government to loosen its grip on current expenditures as well. The account would also extend interest-free loans to profitable public works projects developed in conjunction with the private sector, the officials said. In this way, the Finance Ministry could meet growing pressure on it to boost capital spending while maintaining a tight grip on outlays by other government departments. Surplus funds from this year's sale of NTT shares could total about 3,000 billion yen. Based on the current market price, the planned sale of 1.95 mln shares would raise more than 5,000 billion yen, compared to about 2,000 billion planned for in the main 1987/88 budget. REUTER 
TOYOTA AND NISSAN EXPORTS FALL IN MAY

Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> and Nissan Motor Co Ltd <NSAN.T> both said May vehicle exports fell from a year earlier mainly due to the yen rise against the dollar. Toyota's exports fell 9.5 pct from a year earlier to 161,266 vehicles in May while Nissan's fell 17.6 pct to 100,221. Toyota's exports to the U.S. Fell 13.9 pct from a year earlier to 90,096 in May and those to Europe fell 2.8 pct from a year earlier to 34,876. Nissan's exports to the U.S. Fell 25.4 pct to 53,604 but those to Europe rose 0.7 pct to 29,721. REUTER 
ARAB HEAVY TERM CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN UP IN JULY

<Aramco Corp> has accepted Japanese nominations to lift a higher proportion of Arab Heavy crude oil under term contracts in July, oil industry sources said. Japanese companies requested a ratio of 80 pct Arab Heavy to 20 pct Arab Light under a term contract agreement with Aramco for 100,000 barrels per day, the sources said. The contractual ratio is 30 pct heavy crude to 70 pct light. Japanese demand for heavy crude oil has increased substantially since the All Japan Seaman's Union ceased sailing into the northern Mideast gulf last month, causing problems with liftings of heavy Kuwait and Khafji crudes. REUTER 
INDONESIA CUTS JULY CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN

Indonesia's state oil company, Pertamina, has informed its affiliated Japanese companies that crude oil supplies will be 40 pct less than contractual volumes in July, a spokesman for an affiliated company said. He said the allocations were in line with Indonesia's production ceiling under its current OPEC quota, so they might be increased if OPEC ratifies a production rise next week. Allocations of Indonesia's main traded crude, Minas, had been cut by 50 pct and Duri by 38 pct, he said. Last month contractual volumes were cut by 30 pct. Contractual volumes assume no production ceiling. Oil traders said Indonesian grades were already trading above their official selling prices (osp) on the spot market due to strong demand from Japan and the U.S. And tight supplies. A cargo of Duri loading in July was reportedly traded yesterday at 70 cents over its osp of 15.60 dlrs per barrel and Minas is trading about 20 cents higher, they said. REUTER 
MAZDA SEES 50.8 PCT DROP IN 1986/87 CURRENT PROFIT

Mazda Motor Corp <MAZT.T> predicted a parent company current profit of 10 billion yen in the year ending October 31, 1987, down 50.8 pct from a year earlier, assuming a yen/dollar value at 147 yen, vice president Yoshihiro Wada told a press conference. Sales in 1986/87 were estimated at 1,640 billion yen, up 0.9 pct from a year earlier. The company earlier posted a parent net profit of 1.59 billion in the first half ended April 30, down 76.9 pct from a year earlier, on sales of 804.02 billion, down 4.2 pct. The fall was due to the yen rise against the dollar which cut 55 billion yen off sales, Wada said. The average value of the dollar was 155 yen in the period from 190 a year earlier. Mazda estimated vehicle exports at 1.12 mln, including kit parts, in the year to October 31, up 6.8 pct from a year earlier, and domestic sales at 360,000, up 0.8 pct, he said. Kit exports should rise because kits sold to Kia Motor Corp <KIAM.SE> unit <Kia Industrial Corp>, which is eight pct owned by Mazda, and to a Mexico unit of Ford Motor Co <F> will rise to 150,000 from 9,000, pushing kit exports up 45.3 pct to 260,000, he said. Mazda has yet to decide whether to pay an unchanged four yen dividend for the second half, but it will pay an unchanged 3.50 yen for the first half, Wada said. REUTER 
HONDA EXPORTS FALL IN MAY

Honda Motor Co Ltd <HMC.T> said its vehicle exports in May fell 11.4 pct from a year earlier to 54,982. Honda shipped 34,701 vehicles to the U.S. In May, up 4.4 pct from a year earlier, but total shipments to North America fell 8.3 pct to 39,009, due to increased assembly there, a company spokeswoman said. Exports to Europe fell 24.8 pct to 12,821, she added. REUTER 
BANKAMERICA ASKS JAPAN BANKS TO BUY SECURITIES

BankAmerica Corp <BAC> asked Japanese commercial banks today to buy 350 mln dlrs in subordinated capital notes and preferred stock that it plans to issue to boost its equity base, a company spokesman said. BankAmerica vice chairman Frank N. Newman held a meeting here today to outline its fund-raising plan to some 20 Japanese banks, he told Reuters. He also stressed the company's efforts to streamline operations, by withdrawing from unprofitable energy-related areas to concentrate more on its Californian home base. But Newman said the company had no intention of selling its Seafirst Corp Subsidiary in Washington. A document obtained by Reuters shows the fund-raising effort involves 250 mln dlrs in 12-year subordinated capital notes and 100 mln in convertible preferred stock. It has made a shelf registration with the SEC so that it can issue debt securities whenever market conditions are favorable. The company already raised 100 mln dlrs in the U.S. Market last month, he added. According to the document, the 250 mln dlrs in subordinated capital notes will carry an interest rate of 100 basis points over the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The minimum rate will be six pct and the maxiumum 12 pct. The notes will be redeemable at par after four years and will also have warrants attached to purchase the firm's common stock at 17.50 dlrs. There will be 7.5 mln warrants in all, with a term of 10 years. The planned convertible preferred stock will carry a dividend rate equivalent to three months LIBOR plus an as yet undecided premium, the document said. There will be no sinking fund for the preferred stock, which will have 10-year warrants attached to buy BankAmerica common stock. The rest of the details of the preferred stock issue have yet to be worked out. On both the preferred stock and note issues, BankAmerica said that a fixed rate alternative was possible. The document said that BankAmerica was also open to raising funds in yen, if that was desirable for the Japanese. Those present at the meeting today were working-level officials from 13 city, three long-term credit and seven trust banks, Japanese banking sources said. Newman expressed hope that certain banks would act as lead managers of the projected debt securities but did not name specific banks, the sources said. No bank made any commitment to the company's fund-raising plan as most knew little about it in advance, they said. "Today's meeting itself was held with very short-notice and we just can't decide what to do with it," said a senior official at a leading city bank. Newman attempted to quell Japanese bankers' fears that the U.S. Federal Reserve may insist that they deduct the equivalent amount to the securities purchased from their primary capital, under a regulation now being studied by the U.S. And Britain. Newman told them that they should not worry because he understood the U.S. Federal Reserve would not go along with such a regulation, the official said. REUTER 
MAZDA EXPORTS FALL IN MAY

Mazda Motor Corp <MAZT.T> said its vehicle exports fell 2.2 pct from a year earlier to 69,191 in May. In May, exports included 50,800 cars, down 4.8 pct from a year earlier, and 18,391 commercial vehicles, up six pct, the company said. Mazda's exports to the U.S. Fell 7.8 pct to 35,401 and those to Europe fell 2.6 pct to 20,809. Exports to South East Asia rose 142.4 pct to 6,564 due to higher exports of complete kits to <Kia Industrial Corp>. REUTER 
JAPAN TRADE SURPLUS WILL GROW AGAIN IN 1987, OECD

Japan's trade surplus is likely to continue to grow in 1987, as sales of Japanese goods abroad increase while domestic demand remains sluggish, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said. In its latest half-yearly review of the world economy, the OECD said Japan managed to considerably reduce its surplus last year, when domestic demand grew by four pct in 1986 while export markets rose by only two pct. But it said this differential between the growth of domestic and foreign demand would reverse in 1987 and 1988, "thus weakening the international adjustment process." It forecast a slowing in domestic growth to little over two pct but with a rise in exports of 3.3 pct in 1987 and 3.6 pct in 1988. As a result, the current account surplus in 1987 will rise to 95 billion dlrs from 86 billion in 1986, although in 1988 it should fall back to 87 billion dlrs. The OECD outlook did not take account of the 6,000 billion yen package announced last month to stimulate domestic demand and increase imports to Japan. However, OECD officials said the measures will significantly strengthen domestic demand, quite possibly exceeding one pct GNP when the full effects have worked through, and thus will provide some stimulus to imports. The OECD outlook said, "Continued large current account surpluses and the further build-up of an already-substantial net external asset position could well lead to upward pressure on the yen." It said that further appreciation could then lead manufacturers to postpone their investment plans and thus weaken domestic growth. The OECD said Japan's Gross National Product was likely to gorw an annual two pct in 1987 and 1988, below 1986's 2.5 pct growth. But it said Japan would continue its good performance on inflation, with a zero figure expected in 1987 compared to a 0.6 pct rise in consumer prices last year. Reuter 
JAPAN STILL WANTS SPECULATIVE DLR DEALS LIMITED

The Finance Ministry is still asking financial institutions to limit speculative dollar dealings, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told reporters. He was responding to rumours in the New York currency market overnight that the Ministry was reducing its pressure on institutions to refrain from excessively speculative dollar dealings. REUTER 
FUJITSU, FUJIAN PROVINCE FORM JOINT VENTURE

Fujitsu Ltd <ITSU.T> said it signed a joint venture agreement with the Post and Telecommunication Administration Bureau of Fujian Province (PTABF), China to develop and sell software for the Fujitsu-designed digital telephone switching machine FETEX-150. It said in a statement the joint company, <Fujian Fujitsu Communications Software Ltd> located in Fuzhou city, was capitalised at about 10 mln yuan and was owned 51 pct by PTABF and 49 pct by Fujitsu. It would create about 20 local jobs and has a target of annual software sales of 330 mln yen in 1992, Fujitsu said. REUTER 
MITSUI, ALLIANCE IN FUND MANAGEMENT TIE-UP

<Mitsui Investment Management Co Ltd> (MIMCL) and <Alliance Capital Management International Inc> (ACMII) will sign an agreement late this month to cooperate in international fund management, a ACMII spokesman said. MIMCL, 55-pct controlled by affiliated companies of Mitsui Bank Ltd <MIBT.T>, will reconsign some of its foreign securities investment orders to ACMII, he told Reuters. ACMII, the London-based 100 pct-owned subsidiary of <Alliance Capital Management Corp> of New York, will reconsign some of its foreign orders to MIMCL and instruct MIMCL in international fund management techniques, the spokesman said. Both firms were among 56 investment advisory companies granted Japanese government approval for discretionary fund management on June 10, the Mitsui spokesman said. Alliance Capital Management Corp is the world's biggest firm devoted exclusively to fund management and has 35 billion dlrs in funds, he said. Mitsui Investment Co Ltd, established two years ago, controls about 800 mln dlrs, 80 pct of which is invested in Japanese equities. REUTER 
JAPAN APPROVES AID FOR INDONESIA, BRAZIL ALUMINIUM

Japan's cabinet approved a plan to help financially-troubled aluminium ventures in Indonesia and Brazil, an official at the Ministry of International and Trade Industry (MITI) said. Japan will invest 24 billion yen in <PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium> in addition to the 68.3 billion yen already invested in the company. The government and private interests will equally share the additional investment, he said. They will also provide equal shares in 6.3 billion yen in new investment in the Albras Amazon aluminium project in Brazil, in addition to the 45.7 billion yen already invested. The Japan Export-Import Bank will cut its rates on loans to Asahan and Albras to about five pct from about seven pct, the official said. Interest rates on loans by Japan's private banks to the two projects are expected to be reduced to around five pct from the current seven to eight pct, but an agreement has yet to be reached, industry sources said. Under the rescue scheme for Asahan, in which 91.1 billion yen has been invested, Indonesia will also extend another 32 billion yen to the company. This will raise Indonesia's investment ratio to about 40 pct from the current 25 pct. The Brazilian government has already agreed to invest an additional 6.5 billion yen in Albras, in which investment now totals 93.2 billion yen, but its stake will not change from 51 pct, the official said. The sources said the rescue programs for the two projects were larger than earlier expected, reflecting Japan's desire to help develop the economies of Indonesia and Brazil and to stabilise sources of aluminium. Japan depends on imports for more than 90 pct of its aluminium demand, which totals some 1.8 mln tonnes a year, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN REPORT SAYS FAULTY REPAIRS CAUSED JAL CRASH

Faulty repairs and inadequate inspection caused the 1985 crash of a Japan Airlines Co Ltd <JAPN.T> (JAL) Boeing 747 which killed 520 people, the Japanese government said in a final official report. The clear cause of the crash was faulty repair work by the Boeing Co <BA>, said Shun Takeda, the ministry of transport official leading the accident investigation committee. But the report also criticised the ministry's inspectors for failing to carry out a full check of the repairs before signing the clearance sheet. The aircraft hit Mount Osutaka, north of Tokyo, on August 12, 1985, after a bulkhead separating the pressurised cabin from the unpressurised tail suddenly burst, fracturing key navigation systems. Only four people survived. A Japan Air Lines spokesman declined comment on the report. Boeing is expected to release a statement later today. The report cleared the JAL crew of all responsibility. In a separate set of recommendations, the investigators said large aircraft operating in Japan should have fail-safe systems, but did not say how this should be done. A press statement by a group of lawyers representing victims of the crash criticised the report for not dealing in greater depth with the fail-safe aspect. The lawyers said Boeing had showed it believed the crash was due to design defects by specifying two design modifications to prevent a recurrence in a memorandum filed in King County, Washington, Superior Court last March 24. They said similar official recommendations for fail-safe systems following two air disasters involving DC-10 aircraft, near Paris in 1974 and at Chicago in 1979, had been rejected after objections from aircraft manufacturers. The government investigators asked the ministry to formulate concrete guidelines for its inspectors. An internal ministry memo earlier this year complained that inspectors were left too much on their own when making aircraft checks. A Boeing team made repairs to the aircraft's aft bulkhead under JAL supervision, and Transport Ministry inspectors approved the repairs without actually seeing them, today's report said. The inspectors were unable to check Boeing's work because the part repaired had been covered by a seal, the report said. Over time, cabin pressurisation speeded up the process of metal fatigue in the repaired bulkhead. Boeing issued an official statement on September 6, 1985, saying the 1978 repairs it had carried out were faulty. It did not link them with the crash. REUTER 
JAPAN'S JUNE INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS

Japan's custom-cleared trade surplus narrowed to 1.61 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of June from 1.97 billion a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said. The June interim surplus compares with a 1.76 billion dlr surplus in the same May period. FOB exports in the first 10 days of June rose 17.6 pct from a year earlier to 6.05 billion dlrs while CIF imports rose 39.6 pct to 4.44 billion. The average yen/dollar rate used for the figures was 141.04 yen against 169.03 a year earlier. REUTER 
JAPAN MACHINERY ORDERS FALL IN APRIL

Japan's private sector machinery orders, excluding shipbuilding, fell 10.4 pct in April from March to a seasonally adjusted 663.8 billion yen, after rising 17.6 pct in March, the government's Economic Planning Agency said. April orders rose 2.0 pct from a year earlier after a 22.6 pct year-on-year rise in March, an agency spokesman told Reuters. Seasonally adjusted private sector orders, excluding those for shipbuilding and electric power firms, fell 7.5 pct in April from March to 517.4 billion yen, after a 5.7 pct rise in March from February. April orders fell 1.3 pct from a year earlier after being unchanged in March. The April drop was due mainly to a 12.9 pct decrease in orders from machine tool industries and a 15.3 pct drop in orders from car makers, the spokesman said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO MAKE LOANS TO INDONESIA AND BOLIVIA

Japan will lend 27.17 billion yen to Indonesia and will share equally with the World Bank a 7.25 billion yen loan to Bolivia as part of its efforts to help Third World countries, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. The lending is in line with Japan's plan to contribute 20 billion dlrs over the next three years to developing countries. Both loans will be used for development, the spokesman told Reuters. He declined to name terms. REUTER 
C. ITOH SEES NO GROWTH IN 1987/88 GROUP PROFIT

C. Itoh and Co Ltd <CITT.T> said its group net profit in the year ending March 31, 1988, is expected to be unchanged from a year earlier. The prediction assumes a yen/dollar rate of 140 yen and a crude oil price of 18 dlrs a barrel, a company spokesman told Reuters. Sales in 1987/88 are estimated at 15,100 billion yen, up 2.3 pct from a year earlier. The company earlier reported group net profit of 20.07 billion yen in the year ended March 31, 1987, up 8.6 pct from a year earlier, helped by a drop in sales and administration costs and reduced interest charges. REUTER 
ISUZU DENIES PLANS TO IMPORT GM CARS TO JAPAN

Isuzu Motors Ltd <ISUM.T> has no plans to import cars made by General Motors Corp <GM.N> to Japan, an Isuzu spokesman told Reuters. The Japanese daily Yomiuri Shimbun reported that Isuzu had decided to import cars directly from GM. Each month Isuzu's domestic distributors sell five to 10 cars from GM's Buick, Chevrolet, and Oldsmobile range. The cars are supplied by Yanase and Co Ltd, a Japanese importer and distributor. Isuzu is owned 38.6 pct by GM. REUTER 
FUJITSU DEVELOPS FAST SIMULATION PROCESSOR

Fujitsu Ltd <ITSU.T> has developed a simulation processor which will operate faster than any computer and will speed development of the next generation of computers, a spokesman told Reuters. The simulation processor will halve the time needed for fault testing the millions of basic logic circuits incorporated in the latest computers, he said. It can simulate the operation of as many as 530 mln logic elements a second if a maximum of 64 processors are interconnected. The simulation processor, which took four years to develop, will not be marketed, he said. REUTER 
AGENCY HEAD SAYS JAPAN SHOULD CUT RICE PRICE

The government should cut its consumer rice price if the official producer price is reduced next month, Tetsuo Kondo, director general of the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA), told reporters. Kondo said after a cabinet meeting that consumers should receive the benefits of the falling costs of rice farming due to the strong yen and lower oil prices. Agriculture Ministry sources said the producer rice price paid to rice farmers would be cut after discussions by the Rice Price Council, an advisory body to the ministry, on July 1 and 2. The consumer rice price is usually set in December. REUTER 
BOEING HAS NOT YET SEEN FINAL JAL CRASH REPORT

Boeing Co <BA> said in a statement it has yet to see the official Japanese government report on the crash of a Japan Air Lines (JAL) Boeing 747 in which 520 died. However, it said it had agreed with an earlier draft report that the accident was caused by incorrect repairs which remained undetected during scheduled inspections. The final report, released today, said faulty repairs to the plane in 1978 by Boeing and inadequate inspection by Transport Ministry inspectors caused the 1985 crash, the worst single air disaster in aviation history. Boeing said it did not believe a similar accident could occur under any foreseeable operating conditions but said it had made tests and provided equipment for new planes and for planes already in service to ensure it could not happen again. REUTER 
JAPAN PANEL URGES WORLD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS

Japan could avoid a sharp rise in the value of the yen against the dollar if Japan, the U.S. And other nations succeeded in restructuring their economies, an advisory panel to the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said. The advisory body said in its report that the yen would soar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a global basis were delayed. An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall to slightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed to restructure their economies. The dollar's fall without structural adjustments would cut Japan's current account surplus to two pct of gross national product (GNP) in 1993, the report said. It said such a change would slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annually during the seven-year period to 1993. If the two nations restructured their economies, the dollar would remain stable in real terms, while reducing Japan's current-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993. This scenario put Japan's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year. It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economy and four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made. REUTER 
JAPAN MUST TRY HARDER TO CUT SURPLUS - MINISTER

Japan must try harder to reduce its trade surplus or the yen will come under renewed upward pressure, Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo. He told a press luncheon he hoped Japan could cut its current account surplus by some 10 billion dlrs a year until it is reduced to some 50 to 60 billion dlrs. In the fiscal year ended March 31 the surplus totalled 93.76 billion dlrs, or about 4.5 pct of GNP. The 6,000 billion yen economic stimulation package the government unveiled late last month would help slash Japan's current account surplus by five to six billion dlrs, he said. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCKS SEEN HEADING FOR POSSIBLE CORRECTION

The Tokyo stock market will probably not make significant gains next week and may suffer a temporary correction, brokers said. Dashed hopes of a further cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate cut and a growing conviction the dollar will remain firm against the yen in the near-term has created a measure of uncertainty over the market's future, brokers said. "Everybody is just trying to think through things and see exactly what is going on," said a broker at Sanyo Securities Co Ltd. "There is a lot of confusion," he added. This uncertainty was spotlighted by violent swings in stock prices over the last two days. Today the 225-share average ended 462.43 points lower at 25,288.12. "People expect a correction next week. They don't care if the market falls to 24,000," the Sanyo broker said. "There is always enough money waiting to get into the market to fill any correction." Tokyo stock prices owe a major part of their two-year bull run to repeated cuts in the discount rate, which diverts money from bank deposits to the stock market and cuts the cost of borrowing, boosting domestic demand and imports. "Fund managers are restructuring their investment portfolios to sell domestic-related issues and include a few more exporters," said Prudential Bache Securities' Hank Sawa. Tokyo-based foreign exchange dealers predict the dollar is unlikely to fall sharply in the near term, thus convincing stock market investors to buy electronics, precision instrument, machinery and some other export-oriented manufacturing shares, brokers said. "Some people are awaiting the results of proposed protectionist U.S. Trade legislation in July for clues to the currency direction," a broker at Daiwa Securities Co Ltd said. REUTER 
OLYMPUS SEES 12 PCT RISE IN 1986/87 CURRENT PROFIT

Olympus Optical Co Ltd <OOPT.T> predicted parent company current profit of 5.50 billion yen in the year ending October 31, 1987, up 12 pct from a year earlier, assuming a yen/dollar rate of 147 yen in the second half, a company spokesman told Reuters. Sales in 1986/87 are estimated at 122 billion yen, up 0.9 pct from a year earlier. But net profit will fall 71.7 pct to three billion yen in 1986/87 from a year earlier when the company made a 10.59 billion net profit due to sales of real estate assets worth seven billion yen, the spokesman said. The precision instrument maker will retain 13 yen dividend for 1986/87, the spokesman said. It earlier reported parent company net profit of 1.34 billion yen in the six months ended April 30, down 85.5 pct from a year earlier, on sales of 60.92 billion, down 0.1 pct. The poor net was mainly due to a fall to 45 mln yen in extraordinary profit in the first half, against 7.70 billion of such profit a year earlier, due mainly to sales of assets. The drop in first half sales was due to the yen's rise against the dollar, which cut sales by some 4.30 billion yen. The dollar averaged 157 yen, against 192 a year earlier. REUTER 
ISUZU SEES BIGGER LOSS IN 1986/87

Isuzu Motors Ltd <ISUM.T> forecast a parent company net loss of 15 billion yen in the year ending October 31, 1987 against a 3.98 billion loss a year earlier, assuming a yen/dollar rate of 140 yen, a spokesman said. Sales in 1986/87 are estimated at 910 billion yen, down 10.2 pct from a year earlier. The automaker earlier reported a parent company net loss of 12.92 billion in the six months ended April 30, 1987, against a 1.65 billion yen profit a year earlier, on sales of 443.90 billion, down 15.9 pct from a year earlier. The poor first half performance was due to the yen's rise against the dollar which cut 84.27 billion yen off sales, the spokesman said. The average yen/dollar rate rose to 158 yen in the first half from 207 a year earlier. First half car exports fell to 68,445 from 82,093 a year earlier, mainly due to drop in exports to the U.S., While domestic sales rose to 30,643 from 29,836. Truck exports fell to 108,782 from 127,903 because a two-year contract to sell a total of 40,000 trucks to China ended last year and domestic sales fell to 55,925 from 61,954. The company estimated sales at 207,000 cars in 1986/87, down 5.2 pct from a year earlier, and 339,000 trucks, down 9.8 pct, the spokesman said. He gave no estimate of exports. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS CONFIRM ARGENTINA LOAN COMMITMENT

Japanese commercial creditor banks confirmed an earlier commitment to extend some 360 mln dlrs in new loans to Argentina, banking sources said. The commitment will represent a part of the 1.95 billion dlrs in new loans to Argentina agreed to by 350 banks worldwide last April 24, the sources said. The 350 banks were supposed to confirm their Argentina loan commitments by June 17. About 91 pct of them have already done so, but it may take some more time before all have confirmed their intentions, the sources added. REUTER 
JAPAN FIRMS TO LAUNCH SALES OF 100 OCTANE GASOLINE

Japanese oil companies are starting campaigns to market 100 octane gasoline to meet growing domestic demand for higher quality motor fuel, oil sources said. Ten companies plan to offer the unleaded gasoline this summer, starting with <Idemitsu Kosan Co Ltd> on June 20. Showa Shell Sekiyu KK <SHOL.T> introduced its Formula Shell 98 octane gasoline to the Japanese market in January this year. Formula Shell has achieved strong sales in Japan despite a higher price than regular octane gasoline, which has prompted other oil firms to offer a rival product, the sources said. "We have received a good response from consumers of Formula Shell in terms of a smoother ride and effective fuel consumption," Showa Shell said. Shell's product sells for 145 yen per litre, 15 yen higher than regular gasoline, and has already achieved a 38 pct share of Japan's high octane gasoline market, it said. High octane gasoline accounts for 25 pct of Shell's total gasoline sales in Japan, it added. Idemitsu said it hopes to raise high octane sales to 20 pct of its total gasoline sales from about seven pct, immediately after the launch of its Idemitsu 100. Nippon Oil Co Ltd <NPOL.T> said it will launch its 100 octane gasoline on July 1, aiming for an increase in high octane sales to 20 pct from six pct of its total gasoline sales. The rush to compete for high octane gasoline market share has been spurred by expectations that the government will lift gasoline production quotas and restrictions on gasoline station construction in the next two to three years. "Major oil companies are trying to boost their gasoline sales network ahead of the proposed lifting of gasoline production quotas," an official at a major oil company said. An advisory panel to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) recommended this week that the government press ahead with deregulation of the oil industry, including the lifting of gasoline production quotas, to help oil companies increase their international competitiveness. Japan's three biggest gasoline marketers, Nippon Oil, Idemitsu and Showa Shell, suffered supply shortages under the production quota guideline in fiscal 1986, ended last March. Domestic gasoline demand during the year was up 2.5 pct from the previous year, according to a MITI report. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 8,000 TONNES OF CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 8,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for shipment from the last-half of July to September, trade sources said. Price details were not available. Reuter 
TOKYO STOCKS OUTLOOK UNCERTAIN DUE TO YEN, OPEC

Prospects for Tokyo stocks are mixed this week with investors trying to figure out the future of the yen/dollar exchange rate and digest the implications of OPEC's latest accord on crude output and pricing, brokers said. They said the market should extend the dull trend it has been in since the 225-share index fell rapidly from the record close at 25,929.42 on June 17. It ended at 24,902.72 on Saturday and fell further this morning to close at 24,707.68 in an uncertain reaction to the weaker yen and the weekend OPEC accord. Brokers said attention could focus more on the cheaper, less well-known stocks in the exchange's first and second sections, which were generally showing more resilience. The second section index, in contrast to the first, closed at a record 2,404.64 on June 26, surpassing the peak set on June 17 of 2,401.71. "Probably shares of companies involved in the domestic economy are a good bet," said a broker at Daiwa Securities Co Ltd. He said his observation was based on figures showing that business activity in Japan is booming. The government said on Friday that department store and supermarket sales rose 7.5 pct in May from a year earlier, while orders received by Japan's 50 major construction firms in the same month were up 7.6 pct year on year. Brokers expected more such figures, but said many stocks linked to domestic demand remain overpriced. "They are hard to find, but companies with an attractive niche in the domestic economy, unaffected by currency movements, are the best bet," said a broker at a foreign securities house who declined to be identified. But sharp rises in money supply and voracious domestic consumption are stirring inflation fears. The consumer price index rose 0.2 pct in May from April, the third consecutive month on month increase. Although investors are not unduly worried about inflation, which erodes the real value of stock holdings, they say rising prices arouse concern that interest rates may climb. The recent market advances have been assuming a further cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate. Such assumptions have now died, discouraging investors, brokers said. If oil prices rise, the stock market in Japan could suffer a downturn as higher production costs stir inflation. But share prices of Japan's oil importing companies may also firm, brokers said. "I have never been able to justify this because it should mean that the cost of importing rises," said a broker at Yamaichi Securities Co. "It just always happens." Export-oriented companies may continue their recent rally if the dollar climbs against the yen. But prices of many blue chip exporters have risen fast over the last two weeks, making them look less attractive, brokers said. However, if the dollar falls to about 140 or 138 yen, the market index may rally, brokers said. A lower dollar could damp down rising capital outflows into dollar investments from Japan's stock and bond markets, brokers said. And as the yen/dollar rate is supposed to reflect the balance of trade between the United States and Japan, a lower dollar would bring more pressure on Japan to expand its demand for American imports by stimulating its local economy, brokers said. "If the dollar falls, buy domestic, if it rises, maybe buy a few exporters," said one foreign broker. REUTER 
OIL MARKETS SHOW RESPECT FOR NEW OPEC ACCORD

OPEC has shown itself to be in control of the world oil situation with its speed in hammering out a pact to limit crude oil output to 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the rest of 1987, oil traders said. They said market respect for the cartel has increased since it announced Saturday that it would cut fourth quarter output to 16.6 mln bpd from the 18.3 mln agreed in December. "There are light oversupplies now, but OPEC ... Has ensured there will be no oversupplies in the fourth quarter, and is in effect putting pressure on end-users," a European crude oil trader said. In Tokyo, one oil analyst said, "There's no reason to expect a weak market from now on." A Japanese oil trader, also based in Tokyo, said, "We thought OPEC would have difficulty agreeing on fourth quarter production so the market will react very bullishly." Traders in Singapore said that while there has been only a slight increase so far in spot quotes for Dubai, a benchmark crude, they expect price increases over the next few days. August Dubai was discussed in cautious early activity at around 17.35 dlrs, above Friday's 17.15-20 range, but still below the government selling price (GSP) of 17.42. Even prices of light Mideast grades, such as Qatar and Abu Dhabi crudes, are expected to improve from recent weak positions, 15 to 20 cents below their GSP's. Singapore traders said sellers might now aim for GSP's at least. They said that after initial jumps, they expect prices to stabilise and hover around GSPs for the next few months. They said the Japanese oil market would be most affected and Japanese end-users would need to rebuild stocks for winter requirements before October. Prices are most likely to rise in the fourth quarter on European and U.S. Stockbuilding for winter, they added. "There's no doubt consumption will be higher than production by the fourth quarter and stocks are not that high," said an international trader in Tokyo. Another Tokyo trader was less bullish, "For sure there will be some shortage but it depends on how much they (OPEC members) cheat." A Singapore trade source said, "There is enough cheating and leakage in the OPEC sales system to convince traders there is no need to worry about shortages." Other traders said the questionable Iraqi production level, after Iraq's rejection of its assigned quota, was a bearish factor to be considered. Traders also said end-users now would buy as much as possible on term contracts and buy spot only when the market cooled from its initial reaction to the OPEC agreement. Spot product prices in Singapore were little changed in thin early discussions, with naphtha and middle distillates quiet on minimal buying interest. Fuel oil products were steady to firm on light demand and tight prompt supplies, dealers said. REUTER 
FAR EAST TRADERS EXPECT 20 DLR OIL IN JANUARY

OPEC's agreement to limit output to 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the rest of the year should boost spot prices and enable the group to raise its official reference price to 20 dlrs a barrel in January from the current 18 dlrs, Far East oil industry sources said. "Fundamentally, the market situation is bullish and the official price will be 20 dlrs in January," a Japanese refiner said. The sources said that in spite of over-production by OPEC members such as Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar, demand should exceed supply by the fourth quarter. Spot oil prices surged on Friday in late U.S. Trading as the market anticipated an OPEC agreement on second-half 1987 output. In early Tokyo trade, levels were firm at 17.30 dlrs for Mideast Dubai cargoes loading next month and 19.00 dlrs for U.K. Brent, traders said. They said they expect more foreign crudes to be sucked into the U.S. Market as the benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate (WTI) trades at around 20.30 dlrs. "With WTI at 20, 21 or 22 dlrs, U.S. Refiners will import Mideast and Far East crudes and this will strengthen those grades further," said a Japanese oil trader. Some Tokyo traders were cautious about whether thU spot market has further upward potential in the short term, having risen strongly on the OPEC news on Friday. "You could certainly argue that if New York rose on that basis, there's no reason for prices to go up again today," said one international oil trader in Tokyo. "But I think if there's any sign of a dip, it will be bought back up again pretty quickly," he added. One oil industry analyst concurred, "There is no reason to expect a weak market from now on." He said he expected OPEC to raise prices to 20 dlrs when it meets on December 9. Oil sources said spot prices are unlikely to surge strongly in the next few months due to cheating by some OPEC members and the likelihood that Saudi Arabia will act as swing producer to maintain steady prices. Iraq is currently producing around two mln barrels per day compared to its second-half quota of 1.54 mln, they said. Its export capability will rise to 2.5 mln bpd when a new pipeline through Turkey, comes onstream in or around September. Qatar is said to be achieving sales of around 350,000 bpd, against its OPEC-assigned quota of 299,000, by discounting up to 20 cents a barrel from official prices, the sources said. Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait are also cheating on the OPEC agreement with over-production and effective price discounts through counter-purchases, industry sources said. But they mostly agreed that Saudi Arabia will unofficially act as swing producer, cutting production to compensate for higher output by other members or boosting output if spot prices rise too high too fast. Saudi Arabia has a floating oil stockpile of 40 to 50 mln barrels. "Saudi Arabia wants oil price stability so the stockpile may be utilized to cool down the market if it rises too much," an oil industry analyst said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO RATIFY 1986 INTERNATIONAL COCOA AGREEMENT

Japan will ratify the 1986 International Cocoa Agreement (ICCA), with effect from July 1, and will renew its membership in the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO), Foreign Affairs Ministry officials said. They said Japan would participate in an ICCO meeting on July 13 in London to revise ICCO buffer stock policy. The 1986 ICCA has been in effect since January 1987. Government approval to participate in the ICCO was delayed by parliamentary debate over the sales tax issue, the officials said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN DETERMINED TO KEEP EASY MONEY POLICY

The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates of deposit (CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show its determination to maintain an easy money policy, central bank officials said. "Today's CD buying operation was designed to seek an announcement effect, in which we would reassure the market of the fact that we have not changed our policy stance," a senior central bank official told Reuters. The bank also bought 400 billion yen in two-month commercial bills to smooth out tight credit conditions in the interbank market today, the officials said. The central bank was concerned about growing market expectations of higher interest rates, which were in part responsible for the recent plunge in stock and yen bond prices, the officials said. But money traders said the market generally shrugged off the bank's CD operation because it was small and at a rate far below prevailing market rates. The rate on the key three-month CDs in the primary market was 4.08/00 pct, while the bank's bid was 3.75 pct, they said. The bank's bill buying operation also had little impact because it was regarded as a routine operation, they said. The money traders said they regarded the central bank's CD buying operation as simply a gesture to live up to Japan's pledge to guide interest rates lower and stimulate the economy. "We did not expect the central bank to ease its credit grip any further," a bank manager said, adding that the prevailing market expectation of higher rates will remain. "If this is the case, the three-month CD rate will stay above four pct for the time being," he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 1,200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will tomorrow sell 1,200 billion yen in bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 2,100 billion, money market traders said. Of the total, 800 billion yen will yield 3.6004 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in 34-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 3. The other 200 billion yen will yield 3.6003 pct in 43-day repurchase accords maturing on August 12. The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.6503 pct in 50-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 19. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.5625 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and 3.6250 pct on two-month bills. They attributed the projected surplus mainly to 1,900 billion yen of government tax allocations to local governments and public bodies. REUTER 
SONY TO ISSUE UNSECURED 75 BILLION YEN CONVERTIBLE

Sony Corp <SNE.T> will issue a 75 billion yen 15-year unsecured convertible bond through public placement mainly in Japan, a company spokesman said. Co-lead managers are Nomura Securities Co Ltd <NMSC.T>, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd <DSEC.T>, Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd <YSEC.T> and Nikko Securities Co Ltd <NIKT.T>. Coupon and conversion price for the par-priced bond maturing on September 30, 2002 will be set at its board meeting to be held in late July. Payment is due on August 17. U.S. And Canadian residents are excluded from subscribing. REUTER 
MAZDA SIGNS AUSTRALIAN COAL IMPORT AGREEMENT

Mazda Motor Corp <MAZT.T> has signed an agreement to import coal from <Coalex Pty Ltd> of Australia through Sumitomo Corp <SUMT.T>, a Mazda spokesman said. Under the agreement, Mazda will annually import 144,000 tonnes of Australian coal worth about nine billion yen. The coal will be used as fuel for Mazda's energy centre, due to start operations in November at its main plant in Hiroshima in western Japan, he said. He declined to specify the term of the contract, but added that such contracts are usually for long periods. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN WORRIES ABOUT MARKET COLLAPSE

The Bank of Japan has become increasingly worried about a possible crash of high-flying financial markets, Bank of Japan sources said. "We're afraid that someday the bubble will burst and that the deflationary impact on the economy will be very disastrous," one source said. They said the central bank has embarked on a delicate policy -- it wants to deflate the speculation that has pumped up prices sharply in recent months without bursting the bubble. Stock prices plunged 393.31 points today, extending the sharp declines of earlier this month, as the market speculated that interest rates would rise. The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates of deposit (CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show its determination to maintain an easy money policy, central bank officials said. Today's CD buying operation was designed to reassure the market the Bank has not changed its policy, a senior central Bank official told Reuters. "There is a possibility that a deflationary impact would permeate the economy if the prices of existing assets collapsed," the Bank of Japan said earlier this month in its annual economic report. Such a possibility has been heightened by what the Bank sees as excessive speculation in stock, bond and land prices. Over the last two years, the stock market average has doubled, driving price/earnings ratios to over 70, compared with about 15 on Wall Street. Bond yields have dropped sharply, while land prices in Tokyo have soared. The excessive speculation means the markets are increasingly out of touch with economic reality and thus more vulnerable, one central bank source said. A collapse now could rob businessmen and consumers of what little confidence they have in the economy after the yen-induced recession of the past year, private economists said. Some hard-pressed exporters already make greater profits through financial dealings than from their basic businesses, they said. "There seems to be an accelerated demand for money to support transactions in shares, bonds, land and other existing assets which has little bearing on value added and therefore on GNP," the Bank of Japan said in its report. The increased inclination of investors to seek capital gains and the accompanying rise in prices of existing assets could have dangerous implications for the economy, it added. In the Bank's view, a major reason behind skyrocketing prices was its own easy monetary policy and the belief in the market that interest rates were heading inexorably lower. Mindful of the potential inflationary dangers posed by excessive liquidity, the Central Bank's board recently decided it had to spell out clearly to the markets that a further discount rate cut was not in the offing, one source said. But the bank had to do that without tightening monetary policy and running the risk of a market collapse. This was achieved partly by a rise in short-term interest rates, which Bank sources ascribed to seasonal pressures and to a change in market expectations. While denying the bank was tightening monetary policy, a senior source welcomed the change in market expectations. The source acknowledged the shift may have been caused partly by the decision to press commercial banks to limit lending in the July/September period. Faster than expected economic growth and a strong dollar also played a part. In the longer run, the Central Bank is counting on a gradual upturn in the economy to draw liquidity from the financial markets into productive areas like capital spending, one Bank of Japan economist said. But while it waits for that to occur over the next six months, it may have to avoid any overt tightening of monetary policy that could collapse the market and lead to recession. REUTER 
HIGHER REVENUES DEAL BLOW TO JAPAN TAX REFORM PLAN

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's diminishing hopes of overhauling the tax system have been dealt a serious blow by reports of sharply higher than expected tax revenues in 1986/87, government officials said. Nakasone has argued that the tax system must be reformed to provide the revenue for more than 1,000 billion yen of tax cuts promised in the government's emergency economic package last month. But his argument has been undercut by reports that the 1986/87 tax take was as much as 2,500 billion yen more than expected. That means the government should have more than enough money in the fiscal year ending next March to pay for the planned tax cuts without having recourse to the unpopular tax measures proposed by Nakasone, one official said. The Prime Minister has proposed an indirect tax and the abolition of tax breaks on small savings as ways of raising revenue to offset the tax cuts. But stiff opposition has forced him to shelve the idea of an indirect tax, at least for the time being. He still hopes to gain parliamentary approval next month to abolish tax breaks on small savings. The higher than expected revenues in 1986/87 partly stemmed from increased receipts from land and securities taxes, as prices of both shares and land soared, one official said. But corporate tax revenues have also been more buoyant than expected, perhaps indicating the recession of the last year induced by the strong yen was not as bad as thought, he said. The final figures for 1986/87 revenues are due to be released by the Finance Ministry on July 1. The higher revenues last fiscal year have also undercut attempts by the Finance Ministry's budget bureau to reduce investment spending by government departments in the 1988/89 budget, several officials said. A budget bureau official said the bureau still wanted to stick with its so-called "minus-ceiling" policy, which calls for government departments to reduce investment spending by five pct a year. But he acknowledged this would be difficult, given the sharp increase in revenues last fiscal year and heavy domestic and U.S. Pressure on the ministry to stimulate the economy. REUTER 
RICOH SEES GROUP NET LITTLE CHANGED IN 1987/88

Ricoh Co Ltd <RICT.T> has predicted group net profit of 11 billion yen in the year ending March 31, 1988, up 0.5 pct from a year earlier, assuming a yen/dollar rate of 140 yen, a company spokesman said. Sales in 1987/88 are expected to rise 6.4 pct from a year earlier to 630 billion yen, on an increase in overseas production and an improvement in its domestic sales network. The company earlier reported group net profit of 10.95 billion yen in 1986/87, down 29.2 pct from a year earlier. Sales were 0.3 pct down at 592.37 billion, due to reduced exports caused by the yen's appreciation against the dollar. Ricoh's exports, accounting for 34.2 pct of total sales against 39.6 pct a year earlier, fell 13.8 pct from a year earlier to 202.83 billion yen in 1986/87, while domestic sales rose 8.7 pct to 389.55 billion. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS CONDITION FOR CAR PLANT LOAN TO POLAND

Japan said an international agreement on loans to Poland was needed before Tokyo extended fresh loans to Warsaw to help a Japanese car maker set up a factory there. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone explained the conditions during the first round of talks with the visiting Polish leader Wojciech Jaruzelski, foreign ministry sources said. They quoted Jaruzelski as saying of a private Japanese plan to export car production facilities to Poland, "If this project goes well, it will serve as an engine in future economic relations between Poland and Japan." Nakasone, speaking of the possibility of resuming extending official loans to Poland, said, "It is necessary that an agreement should be established at an international arena such as the Paris Club of creditor nations." He hoped that such an agreement will be achieved at an early date, but he did not make firm commitments about Japanese loans, the sources said. Along with western nations, Japan has witheld new official credits to Poland since February 1982, following the 1981 declaration of martial law in Poland. The Japanese car maker Daihatsu Motor <DMOT.T> and three trading houses including Mitsui Co Ltd plan to export production facilities to Poland's state-owned car maker FSO to make the Charade minicar, according to Mitsui officials. "We are pushing the plan on the premise of an official credit to be extended eventually," a Mitsui spokesman said. Nakasone also said that a joint Japan-Poland economic committee would discuss the proposed conclusion of an investment protection agreement later this year, the sources said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS LEND 20 BILLION YEN TO GREECE

The central state owned Bank of Greece said a consortium of Japanese banks will lend it 20 billion yen for use in the public sector. The Bank said in a statement the loan will be for 10 years with a five year grace period. The first five years of the loan will have a fixed interest rate, slightly above the long term prime rate of the Japanese money market, with an adjustment in the second five years in accordance with prevailing market rates. Banks in the consortium are Bank of Tokyo International Ltd, Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd, The Long Term Credit Bank of Japan, Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Insurance Co, Sumitomo Bank Ltd, Mitsubishi Bank Ltd, Sanwa Bank and Yashouda Bank and Trust Corp, the Bank of Greece said. REUTER 
Japan May unemployment record 3.2 pct (3.0 pct in April)
- official



JAPAN UNEMPLOYMENT RISES TO RECORD 3.2 PCT IN MAY

Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.2 pct in May, the worst level since the government started compiling unemployment statistics in 1953, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The May rate surpassed the previous record of 3.0 pct marked set in January and April this year. It was also up sharply from 2.7 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted May unemployment totalled 1.91 mln people, up from 1.90 mln in April and 1.62 mln a year earlier. An agency official blamed industrial restructuring and the strong yen for the rise in unemployment. The seasonally adjusted male unemployment rate in May rose to a record 3.2 pct, surpassing the previous record 3.0 pct set in July 1986. This compares with 2.9 pct in April and 2.7 pct a year earlie. Unadjusted male unemployment totalled 1.12 mln, up 180,000 from a year earlier. The female unemployment rate in May was unchanged from April at a record 3.1 pct. A year ago, the rate was 2.8 pct. Unadjusted female unemployment rose 100,000 to 790,000. The yen's appreciation continued to affect employment in manufacturing industries and the total employed in May fell 210,000 or 1.5 pct from a year earlier to 14.10 mln. REUTER 
CANON STOPS PRODUCTION OF LOW-END WORD PROCESSORS

Canon Inc <CANN.T> said it will stop making Japanese language word processors with retail prices below 50,000 yen and consign production instead to <Kyushu Matsushita Electronic Co Ltd>, a 51.75-pct owned unit of Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd <MC.T>. A Canon spokesman said the move reflects intense price competition as Canon, Casio Computer Co Ltd <CACT.T> and others compete in the growing market for low-end processors. Canon will focus production on more expensive and sophisticated models which have more generous profit margins, he said. REUTER 
NEC TO SUPPLY CHIP TECHNOLOGY TO FRANCE

NEC Corp <NIPN.T> will supply <Matra-Harris Semiconducteurs SA(A)> (MHS) of France with manufacturing technology for 16-bit microchips used in microcomputers, an NEC spokesman said. MHS, a joint venture between France's MATRA <MATR.PA> and Harris Corp <HRS> of the U.S., Will manufacture and market globally a microcomputer based on NEC's Micron PD 78312 and Micron PD78310 chips. MHS will pay NEC an undisclosed sum for the technology. REUTER 
JAPAN TAKES WAIT-AND-SEE STANCE ON STOCKS-OFFICIAL

The Finance Ministry will take a wait-and-see stance on Tokyo Stock Exchange movement, although it is gravely concerned about the sharp fall in stock prices, a senior Ministry official said. The official, who declined to be identified, told reporters the 7.3 pct drop in Tokyo stock prices this morning was caused primarily by psychological factors following the 22.5 pct fall in New York stock prices overnight. He said the Ministry is in close contact with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, but has no plans yet to take any specific measures regarding the fall. REUTER 
JAPANESE PREMIER SAYS HE WATCHING STOCK SITUATION

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying he was watching the stock market situation. "We must watch things a little longer. New York is down 22 pct, London 10 pct, while compared to this Japan is seven pct down," Kyodo quoted him as telling reporters. Asked if he agreed with analysts who called the stock sell-off "Black Monday," Nakasone said: "Compared with times past, economics have changed completely." He rejected a comparison between the present situation and the stock market collapse of 1929 and the recession which followed. REUTER 
Japan September M-2 plus CD money supply rises 11.1 pct year on year (Aug 11.0)



TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE WILL NOT SUSPEND TRADING

Tokyo Stock Exchange president Michio Takeuchi said the exchange has no immediate plans to suspend trading to cool off panic stock selling. However, he said Tokyo may consider such a measure if the London and New York exchanges are closed overnight. "I don't think it will happen," he added. He also told reporters the exchange will relax margin requirements effective on Wednesday to encourage stock buying. Takeuchi said the sharp fall in stock prices was mostly due to psychological factors. "We need to keep close watch on market movement but we expect the market will stabilise soon," he said, adding that individual investors should remain calm. "It is advisable to wait for an autonomous recovery of the market," he said. The margin requirement in cash will be reduced to 50 pct from 70 pct while the margin collateral requirement in equity will rise to 70 pct from 60 pct, effective on Wednesday, he said. Takeuchi also said the exchange has no specific plan to take coordinated action with the New York and London exchanges to help stabilise stock prices. The drop on Wall Street was caused by various factors but was primarily the result of a correction of overvalued share prices, he said. The current stock price plunge cannot compare with the Great Depression as the economic environment is very different, he added. The exchange has not changed plans to introduce stock futures trading next year despite press reports that the Wall Street fall was linked with futures trading, he said. REUTER 
NISSAN STARTS TO MARKET REMODELLED 4WD VEHICLES

Nissan Motor Co Ltd <NSAN.T> said it has started to market a remodelled version of its four wheel drive (4WD) Safari vehicle in Japan. Nissan said in a statement it hopes to sell 250 vehicles a month in Japan. It also plans soon to start exporting 3,400 vehicles a month to the Australian, Middle East and Asian markets under the name Patrol, a spokesman said. It will sell the vehicle in Europe sometime in the future, with shipments from <Motor Iberica S.A.>, its Spanish unit. The volume for Europe will be set later. REUTER 
JAPAN TO SCRUTINISE LIFE INSURERS' CAPITAL GAINS

The Finance Ministry plans to examine how life insurance companies realised capital gains through transactions undertaken in June, just before the yen bond market began to fall sharply, a senior Ministry official said. The move is aimed at cooling fierce competition in the field and will pave the way for a Ministry system to check that insurers do not inflate investment returns on the accounts to attract investors, he said. Some insurers transfer part of their unrealised gains from general accounts to the variable life accounts, violating their internal regulations, industry sources said. The eight major local life-insurers which offer variable life policies here realised an average return of 21.01 pct on such policies in the year ended September. The Ministry will scrutinise the policies of 17 local and foreign life insurers which offer the variable life schemes. Japan has 23 major local life insurers, none of which is listed on the stock market. REUTER 
JAPAN MONEY GROWTH TO STAY AT 11-12 PCT - OFFICIAL

Growth in Japan's M-2 plus certificates of deposit (CD) money supply in the October to December period is not expected to accelerate, but will remain at high levels between 11 and 12 pct, a senior Bank of Japan official said. The central bank will keep a watch on high growth in liquidity because this is a factor that may cause rises in prices of goods, he said. The September growth of 11.1 pct year on year announced earlier today should not be taken as implying that the money supply has started to expand very rapidly, he said. In August the rate of increase was 11.0 pct. REUTER 
JAPAN TRIES TO STEM STOCKS DIVE

Government and monetary authorities today staged a concerted effort to calm spreading panic on Japanese stock exchanges but market analysts said there were limits to their ability to succeed. "The ability of the Big Four (Japanese securities houses) and the Finance Ministry is limited," said Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Peter Morgan. Finance Ministry officials asked the big four securities companies this afternoon to help calm panic selling on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, ministry officials said. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying he was watching the stock market situation. But he rejected comparisons with the 1929 stock market collapse and subsequent recession. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Tokyo stock market should not be gravely affected by downturns in New York and London because there are clear signs of a Japanese economic recovery and exchange rate stability. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita also tried to calm the panic, saying in a statement that world stock markets were excessively concerned about the economic future. Traditionally, the four big houses -- Nomura Securities Co Ltd, Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd, and Nikko Securities Co Ltd -- have influenced the market because of their sheer size and overwhelming market share. This strength has in the past made it possible for the brokerages to calm down markets under guidance from the Finance Ministry, analysts said. But the analysts questioned whether the brokerages, which have already suffered heavy losses from falling bond markets over the past year, would have the strength this time to turn things around. "The question is, are the Japanese brokerages strong enough to force investors to buy," said Johsen Takahashi, research director at the Mitsubishi Research Institute. "If we consider that they have suffered serious losses in the bond markets and in their U.S. Investments, it is debatable whether they they could support buying," he said. "We can support things to some extent, but we can't completely suppress selling," said one Japanese broker. Some analysts said the high percentage of shares cross-held by financial institutions and other corporations could have a stabilising effect on the market. Some 80 pct of shares are held by corporate shareholders, said Keikichi Honda, general manager of the Bank of Tokyo Ltd's economic research division. "This is a tightly woven textile. In its own way it is stronger than Wall Street." But other analysts expressed doubt about this argument. "If a high percent of shares is cross held, everything happens at the edges and the relative moves can be larger," said Kleinwort Benson Ltd financial analyst Simon Smithson. "Selling will drive prices down an enormous distance because of no liquidity." "You don't need big volume to get big declines in the market -- you just need a huge imbalance between sellers and buyers," said Barclay's Morgan. Shares held by what are termed "stable shareholders," or banks and other companies with which a firm does business, might also find their way onto the market if the outlook gets bad enough, some analsyst said. "Closely held shares could become unclosely held," said Morgan. But he said such a prospect is unlikely right now because companies, with their improved earnings prospects, do not need to sell shares for cash flow reasons. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN SEES STEADY ECONOMIC RECOVERY

The Japanese economy is firmly on the recovery path, supported by robust domestic demand, the Bank of Japan said in a regular monthly report. The report said industrial production is strengthening as manufacturing companies have almost completed adjustments of their plant and equipment investment while non-manufacturing firms have continued to be positive in their capital spending. Strong domestic demand, such as consumer spending and housing investment, will more than offset declining exports, the central bank report said. It also noted the continued rise in domestic wholesale prices and money supply. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK PLUNGE COULD FORCE EASIER MONEY POLICY

Plunging Tokyo stock prices will prevent the Bank of Japan from raising its discount rate and could even force it to ease monetary policy if the collapse continues, government and private economists said. A rise in interest rates now would only serve to spark further selling of shares that could ultimately have a major deflationary impact on the real economy, they said. Although Bank of Japan officials have consistently maintained that they had no plans to raise the 2.5 pct discount rate, many in the markets have thought otherwise. Fears of a rise in the discount rate were fanned by the central bank's apparent decision last week to countenance higher rates on commercial bills, dealers said. But today's stock market collapse -- prices fell nearly 15 pct -- means that the Bank of Japan would be hard pressed to raise the discount rate now, despite its concerns about a renewed outbreak of inflation, dealers and economists said. Japanese government bond prices rose sharply today as the markets concluded that the stock market's collapse precluded the central bank from carrying out the widely-rumoured discount rate increase. A senior government economist suggested that both the U.S. And Japan needed to ease monetary policy now to prevent a further drop in New York and Tokyo stock prices. "They need to support the stock and security markets," he said. But Bank of Japan officials said they saw no need to change policy for the moment, although one admitted that the central bank may have to rethink its strategy if Tokyo stock prices continue to plunge during the rest of the week. Both government and Bank of Japan economists agreed the economy is better placed now to cope with the deflationary impact of plunging stock prices than it was a few months ago. With the economy recovering strongly, the steep drop in stock prices is not likely to put a major dent in consumer and business confidence, one government economist said. "There will be some impact on the real economy, but it won't be that big," said another. Individuals are not heavily invested in stocks on their own, although they do participate through trust funds and other investment vehicles. And while many manufacturing firms turned to financial market investments for profits during last year's economic downturn, the recent rebound has allowed them to refocus their attention on their core businesses, he said. Paradoxically, it is the pick-up in the economy that is partly to blame for the stock market collapse as companies have shifted funds away from financial investments to increase inventories and step up capital spending, one government economist said. In deciding what response to make to the steep stock price drop, the Bank of Japan must first determine whether prices will continue to fall further and then decide if they pose a greater economic danger than the threat of higher inflation, one central bank official said. "That will at least take a couple of days, if not weeks," he said. REUTER 
TAKESHITA FACES TOUGH ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT JOB

Former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita, chosen on Monday to be Japan's next prime minister, will face a tough test in managing Japan's economy from the very start of his two-year term, economists and businessmen said. Takeshita told a news conference on Tuesday that he would do his best to continue the domestic reforms and external policies of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone. However, leading Japanese businessmen called on Takeshita to outdo Nakasone by showing stronger leadership. "Takeshita should not merely follow the Nakasone policies but should cope with mounting economic issues with a new vision and policies," Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said in a statement. Economists generally agreed that there will be no major changes in Japan's economic policies under a new leader. However, expectations are high among major industries for new initiatives by Takeshita for immediate and effective measures to solve economic problems such as trade friction with the U.S., Administrative and tax reforms, and soaring land prices. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren), urged Takeshita to succeed in unifying the ruling Liberal Democratic Party as soon as possible to tackle difficult tasks. Regarding foreign economic polices, Yoshitoki Chino, chairman of the Japan Securities Dealers Association, said Takeshita should come up with economic measures well before economic issues develop into problems. Behind those calls on Takeshita for prompt action are doubts about his capability in handling international issues due to his lack of experience in diplomacy, economists said. Economists said foreign countries should be patient with Takeshita, who is widely known as an ultra-cautious politician. Takeshita has repeatedly said, "There should be consensus before taking action." Takeshita has so far failed to unveil specific measures to reduce Japan's huge trade surplus, economists said. He has said Japan will continue to stimulate the economy and to open the market wider to foreign products. REUTER 
JAPANESE STOCK PLUNGE RAISES FUNDING PROBLEMS

The massive plunge in Tokyo stock prices on Tuesday could rob the Government of much-needed revenue to spur Japan's economy, and may hurt banks' ability to lend abroad, analysts polled by Reuters said. "The Japanese Government is depending on the sale of NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp <NCCT.T>) shares for much of its public spending budget," said Shigeo Suzuki, a deputy general manager at the Industrial Bank of Japan. Japan had hoped to raise at least 5,000 billion yen from the sale of 1.95 mln NTT shares on November 10. However, the 14.9 pct plunge in the Tokyo share index today has made such plans look unrealistic, analysts said. "The government could defer the sale of NTT or they could offer fewer shares," said Keikichi Honda, general manager of economic research at the Bank of Tokyo Ltd. Honda said another possibility is that the underwriters handling the NTT sale would have to pay the Government the amount it expected to get and bear the brunt of any losses themselves. "That is what underwriting means," he added. A Finance Ministry official confirmed that the government planned to go ahead with its sale of NTT shares on November 10. Another possible effect of Tokyo's stock tumble would be to seriously undermine the asset base of Japanese banks. The banks lend money all over the world and regard the market value of stock holdings as assets, analysts said. "Japanese banks make loans using perhaps as much as 60 to 70 pct of the market value of their unrealised stock holdings as assets," said Industrial Bank's Suzuki. There is also concern that Japanese companies, which have invested heavily in Tokyo's stocks as their real business declined over the last two years, have sustained heavy losses. "Many companies, mainly export-oriented companies, were planning on selling their shares for a profit to reinvest in real businesses as the economy begins to pick up," said one analyst at a foreign brokerage. "That prospect now looks dim." But analysts said it is unlikely companies or financial institutions will be bankrupted by losses in stock trading. "I don't think any company is so badly exposed in stock investments," said a senior analyst at Nomura Research Institute. "In terms of financial institutions, luckily the rebounding bond market and currency markets are still profitable," he added. The Nomura analyst said a 10 pct decline in Tokyo stocks would be translated into a fall of about 0.2 pct in consumer spending. Some 20 pct of Tokyo stocks are owned by individuals. Market capitalisation on the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell to 329,588 billion yen on Tuesday from 386,041 billion at Monday's close. NTT shares ended 260,000 yen lower at 2.65 mln each, well down from their peak of 3.18 mln in April. REUTER 
NIKKO PULLS INTEC EQUITY WARRANT BOND

A 100 mln dlr equity warrant bond for Intec Inc <INTT.T> of Japan has been cancelled because of turbulent market activity following today's 14.9 pct plunge in Tokyo stock prices, Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said as lead manager. The five year issue, on launched October 13, had terms fixed yesterday, when it last traded at a bid only price of less 2-1/4 pct, placing it on total fees, Nikko officials said. Indeed, dealers said stock price volatility shut down trading altogether in Japanese equity related debt issues today and cast doubt on the new issue calendar for the next few weeks, during which as many as eight new deals were to be launched. REUTER 
EC AGREES TRADE DEAL WITH ARGENTINA

The European Community (EC) agreed a trade deal with Argentina designed to compensate the country following the entry of Spain and Portugal into the group, EC officials said. Under the deal agreed by EC foreign ministers, Argentina will gain additional trading rights on a series of products including meat, fish and cereals by-products. But ministers failed to agree on new trade deals with Canada and Japan and are due to study these again, the officials said. The deal with Argentina was agreed by a majority of EC states after West Germany withdrew objections to increased quotas for Argentina on high-quality beef. Ireland and France continued to oppose the deal on meat, saying that the main dispute was over sales of cereals substitutes, but they were outvoted by the other states, the officials said. Under the deal, Argentina will benefit from improved quotas on exports of beef to the EC. In particular the quota on high-quality Hilton beef will be raised by 4,500 tonnes to 34,300 tonnes and quotas on frozen boneless beef will be increased by 3,000 tonnes to 53,000 tonnes. Argentina will also benefit from an additional quota of 5,000 tonnes of frozen hake fillets at 10 pct duty and reduced levies on 550,000 tonnes of wheat bran, the officials said. The improved trade terms were offered after Argentina said that Spain and Portugal's entry into the EC affected their exports of cereals substitutes to these two countries. They have been negotiated under the rules of GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade). But officials said ministers had been unable to resolve Canadian claims that its sales of certain fish to Spain had been affected by the country's EC membership. Officials said the EC had asked GATT to arbitrate on the fish dispute with Canada. Ministers also decided to continue talks with Japan. The EC claims that Spain and Portugal's entry into the group has improved trade conditions for Japan but has been unsatisfied with Japanese offers of compensation. Japan's main offers were to improve inspection systems on citrus fruits to aid EC exports, to improve tariffs for some other farm produce, to increase tariffs for leather footwear and to offer better trade terms for Spain and Portugal. EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq told journalists: "We maintain our position that the (Japanese) concessions were not enough." "We hope that there will be an improvement," he said. Reuter 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS 50 BILLION YEN OF BONDS

The Bank of Japan bought around 50 billion yen of 10-year government bonds in an operation seen aimed at allaying fears of a collapse in the market, bond traders said. The central bank bought the 6.8 pct 73rd, 6.5 pct 80th, and 5.1 pct 89th issues. Yield on the key 89th bond due 1996 subsequently fell to 5.560 pct in early trading from 5.920 pct at the close on Tuesday, after opening at 5.600 pct. The market had generally welcomed the operation and trading volume had been gradually increasing. There was some retail bargain-hunting for less active issues, traders said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS 200 BILLION YEN OF BILLS

The Bank of Japan reassured a nervous money market after the sharp fall in Tokyo stock prices yesterday by conducting a 200 billion yen commercial bill purchase operation, money traders said. The central bank injected funds through three-month repurchase agreements which mature on January 11 and bear interest of 3.9375 pct, identical to this morning's rates on three-month commercial bills. The operation was done partly to roll over 300 billion yen in commercial bills maturing this morning. Money market sources project a 260 billion yen surplus today. In the bond market, the Bank of Japan offered to buy around 50 billion yen of 10-year government bonds, encouraging an already firm tone in bond prices, dealers said. The Bank of Japan was trying to reassure market participants that it was ready to supply funds whenever the market needed them, especially after Tuesday's plunge in Tokyo stock prices, securities house traders said. The widely held market belief that interest rates were heading higher was a major cause of the recent tumble in bond market prices and one reason behind the stock market plunge, they said. REUTER 
TAKESHITA CHOSEN AS NEXT JAPAN PRIME MINISTER

Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) on Tuesdayhose former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita to be the next prime minister, replacing Yasuhiro Nakasone whose term ends on October 30. LDP officials told Reuters the choice was made by Nakasone after Takeshita and two other contenders failed in marathon closed-door meetings to agree who should be Japan's next leader. They were vying for the presidency of the LDP, a post which automatically carries with it the premiership by virtue of the party's parliamentary majority. Reuter 
SAUDI TO REMAIN AS KEY LPG SUPPLIER TO JAPAN

Saudi Arabia is likely to remain the key supplier of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to Japan for at least the next five years, oil industry sources said. Japan, while diversifying its supply sources of propane and butane for stable supplies, will continue to bank on Saudi Arabian LPG, the sources said. They said Saudi's supply capabilities of LPG, an associate of crude oil, is guaranteed by its crude output capacity. "Saudi is a reliable supplier in that sense," said one trader. Japan imports about 50 pct of its LPG from Saudi Arabia. No single nation could substitute for Saudi Arabia as an LPG supply source to Japan, the sources said. "Saudi Arabia has committed itself to Japanese LPG buyers, which has quelled fears that LPG supplies from the Mideast Gulf could easily be disrupted in the wake of heightened hostilities in that area," said another trader. Saudi Arabia cut LPG shipments to Japan and elsewhere by 20 pct in September after a fire put a major gas plant at Al-Juaimah out of operation. October shipments were back to contractual volumes as Saudi was able to boost exports from other ports. Attacks on Gulf shipping by Iran and Iraq centered on crude rather than products carriers, which has lulled fears of LPG supply disruptions, traders said. They said an Iranian blockade of the Strait of Hormuz was unlikely because it would block Iran's oil shipments. Industry sources said Japan's LPG imports will not greatly rise or fall as its domestic demand growth is estimated at a moderate 2.1 pct a year from 1986 through 1991. Japanese term buyers of Saudi LPG are expected to lift slightly lower volumes from January 1987, when imports from Indonesia are slated to increase, the sources said. The customers are unlikely to slash Saudi term purchases in large scale when Japan increases annual imports of Indonesian LPG to 1.95 mln tonnes in early 1989 from 319,000 tonnes in the year ended March 1987, the sources said. But when demand is sluggish in summer, they will phase down term purchases of Saudi LPG and secure lower-priced cargoes on the spot market, they said. Japan imports some 12 mln tonnes of LPG a year, of which 5.3 mln tonnes are supplied by Saudi Arabia, 3.3 mln under term contracts and two mln through spot purchases. Some 80 pct of Japan's LPG imports are from the Middle East. Saudi Arabia's state owned oil company Petromin has made some concessions on term prices to Japanese customers in the recent round of contract renewal talks, and it is likely the Japanese will accept the offer, the sources said. The Japanese term customers, however, have so far been unsuccessful in establishing a transparent price formula to replace the existing unilateral monthly price notice. Japanese buyers pay Saudi Arabia a price notified by Petromin each month. Most recently the FOB price was set at 87 pct of the 17.52 dlrs per barrel government selling price (GSP) of Arabian Light. Buyers reserve the right to phase down or out liftings should the monthly price be set at over 95 pct of Arabian Light's GSP. Petromin has offered to lower this rate to 90 pct from the 95 pct for contracts with Japanese customers from next January, the trade sources said. Petromin also suggested that a seller's option of supplying up to 20 pct more than the contractural volume be subject to seller-buyer agreement. Under the present contract, Petromin can automatically cut supplies up to 10 pct of the contractual volume. "If you want to import LPG from Saudi Arabia on a profitable basis, you have to set the price factor at 80 to 85 pct," said an official at a major importer. "Freight costs are higher for cargoes coming from the Gulf than Southeast Asia due to a longer haul and war risk insurance payments." Japanese customers will visit Saudi Arabia this month to finalise their separate contract talks, now focusing on contractual period and volume, which could be very similar to current levels, the sources said. "When we talk business, we would seek profitability and sometimes forget vulnerability of high dependence on a single supplier," said one. REUTER 
TOYOTA, VW CONSIDER UPPING JOINT PROCUREMENT RATE

Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> and Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> are considering raising the local procurement rate at their West German joint venture to at least 60 pct from an earlier planned 50 pct after one year's output, a Toyota spokesman said. The two carmakers agreed last June to start jointly producing a Toyota-designed light truck at VW's Hanover plant from early 1989 at a rate of 7,000 to 8,000 the first year, rising to 15,000 from 1990. They may equip the light truck with a Volkswagen-made engine to reach a local procurement rate of 60 pct, he said. The two companies need to raise the value of locally procured parts to 60 pct to avoid tariffs when they export to other European markets, industry sources said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 800 billion yen in bills from its holdings on Tuesday to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 470 billion yen and recycle 400 billion in bills maturing then, money market traders said. Of the total, 400 billion yen will yield 3.8512 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses through 29-day repurchase agreements maturing on November 17. These are aimed at meeting a projected cash shortage on that day, when the government floats 1.95 mln shares in Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp. The other 400 billion will yield 3.9006 pct through 44-day repurchase accords maturing on December 2. The operation will bring the supply of bills outstanding to about 3,200 billion yen. REUTER 
ABE TIPPED TO BE NEXT JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER

No clear indication has emerged of the victor in the race to succeed Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone but political analysts said it was becoming more likely that former foreign minister Shintaro Abe would be chosen. A decision on which of the three contenders would be picked was expected late today or early on Tuesday, they said. Japanese political leaders held a flurry of closed-door meetings today and the three candidates called on Nakasone, who is due to step down late this month, to mediate to break the deadlock. The other candidates are Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita. They are vying for the post of president of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), who is automatically prime minister by virtue of the party's parliamentary majority. The new LDP president will be named formally at a party convention on October 30 and elected prime minister by parliament, probably on November 6, LDP sources said. Nakasone, 69, is due to retire on October 31 after five years in the post, an exceptionally long term by Japanese standards. Takeshita, who is head of the party's largest faction, had steadfastly opposed the idea of seeking Nakasone's help, but he told reporters: "It is possible Nakasone will be given carte blanche (for selection of his successor)." One politi