JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES FALL 0.4 PCT IN JANUARY

Japan's unadjusted consumer price index (base 1985) fell 0.4 pct to 99.7 in January from the previous month, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The fall compares with a decline of 0.2 pct in December. The January index compared with a year earlier was down 1.1 pct, the first drop larger than 1.0 pct since it fell 1.3 pct in September 1958. Food costs rose in January from December but prices fell for clothing, footwear and utilities, causing the overall decline for the month. Housing, medical and educations costs increased in January compared with a year earlier but the cost of utilities, gasoline and vegetables fell. The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area (base 1985) was down 0.1 pct in mid-February from a month earlier at 100.2, reflecting lower prices for food, clothing and footwear. Compared with a year earlier, the index was down 0.7 pct due to lower vegetable, fuel oil and utility costs. REUTER 
AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK

Average interest rates on yen certificates of deposit, CD, fell to 4.27 pct in the week ended February 25 from 4.32 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japan said. New rates (previous in brackets), were - Average CD rates all banks 4.27 pct (4.32) Money Market Certificate, MMC, ceiling rates for the week starting from March 2 3.52 pct (3.57) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks Less than 60 days 4.33 pct (4.32) 60-90 days 4.13 pct (4.37) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks 90-120 days 4.35 pct (4.30) 120-150 days 4.38 pct (4.29) 150-180 days unquoted (unquoted) 180-270 days 3.67 pct (unquoted) Over 270 days 4.01 pct (unquoted) Average yen bankers' acceptance rates of city, trust and long-term banks 30 to less than 60 days unquoted (4.13) 60-90 days unquoted (unquoted) 90-120 days unquoted (unquoted) REUTER 
JAPAN EXPECTED TO CUT BASE RATE FOR STATE BODIES

Japan is expected to cut the base lending rate for state financial institutions to 5.5 pct from 6.2 as part of the recent pact by major industrial nations in Paris, Finance Ministry sources said. They said the cut is based on a revision of the Trust Fund Bureau Law, which should be approved by parliament on March 3, abolishing the 6.05 pct minimum interest rate on deposits with the bureau. The bureau channels funds to government financial institutions for public works and other official uses, they said. The base lending rate for state bodies such as the Japan Development Bank, People's Finance Corp and the finance corporations of local public enterprises usually moves in tandem with long-term prime rates, the sources said. However, it was impossible for them to follow the last cut, to 5.8 pct from 6.2 pct on January 28, because the Trust Fund Bureau rate was legally set at 6.05 pct. The ministry will abolish the minimum rate and introduce a market-related one to resolve the problem and stimulate the domestic economy, they said. On Tuesday, the ministry allowed long-term bankers to cut their prime to a record low of 5.5 pct, effective February 28. The move suggested it had reached agreement with depositors using the bureau, the postal savings system of the Posts and Telecommunications Ministry and the Japan welfare annuity of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the sources said. These ministries are trying to determine which market rates should be considered when setting the bureau's deposit rate, the ministry sources said. Coupon rates on new 10-year government bonds, minus 0.1 percentage points, is the likeliest choice, they added. REUTER 
TOKYO GRAIN EXCHANGE TO RAISE MARGIN REQUIREMENTS

The Tokyo Grain Exchange said it will raise the margin requirement on the spot and nearby month for U.S. And Chinese soybeans and red beans, effective March 2. Spot April U.S. Soybean contracts will increase to 90,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 70,000 now. Other months will stay unchanged at 70,000, except the new distant February requirement, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2. Chinese spot March will be set at 110,000 yen per 15 tonne lot from 90,000. The exchange said it raised spot March requirement to 130,000 yen on contracts outstanding at March 13. Chinese nearby April rises to 90,000 yen from 70,000. Other months will remain unchanged at 70,000 yen except new distant August, which will be set at 70,000 from March 2. The new margin for red bean spot March rises to 150,000 yen per 2.4 tonne lot from 120,000 and to 190,000 for outstanding contracts as of March 13. The nearby April requirement for red beans will rise to 100,000 yen from 60,000, effective March 2. The margin money for other red bean months will remain unchanged at 60,000 yen, except new distant August, for which the requirement will also be set at 60,000 from March 2. REUTER 
CHINA TO BORROW 390 MLN DLRS

China will receive loans totalling 390 mln dlrs from Japan and the World Bank for investment in new highways and port facilities. The Japan Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund is to provide 260 mln dlrs towards China"s plans to improve its road network, the official New China News Agency reported. A 130 mln dlr World Bank loan will be used to build 12 new berths incorporating container handling systems at the northeast China port of Tianjin, the agency said. It gave no details of the repayment terms of the loans. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS JUMPS

Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus in the first 20 days of February jumped to 3.58 billion dlrs from 1.94 billion a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said. The February interim surplus was sharply up from a 965.04 mln dlr surplus in the same January period. FOB exports rose 14.6 pct from a year earlier in the first 20 days of February to 10.91 billion, while CIF imports fell 3.2 pct to 7.33 billion. The average dollar/yen rates were 152.32 for exports and 152.31 for imports against 196.61 for exports and 196.27 for imports a year earlier. REUTER 
NIPPON LIGHT METAL CONTINUES ALUMINIUM OUTPUT CUT

Nippon Light Metal Co Ltd <NLGT.T>, which has annual capacity of 63,000 tonnes, will continue primary aluminium production at a rate of 35,000 tonnes owing to low domestic and world prices and low water supplies at its hydroelectric power plant, a company official said. Nippon, which has no plans to restore output to the 48,000 tonnes a year at which it was working until late 1986, will become Japan's only smelter. <Ryoka Light Metal Industries Ltd> will stop smelting in April owing to high power costs and low prices, and <Mitsui Aluminium Co Ltd> has said it stopped smelting in February. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY RESERVES RECORD 51.73 BILLION DLRS

Japan's external reserves rose to a record 51.73 billion dlrs at the end of February from the previous record of 51.46 billion at end-January, the Finance Ministry said. End-February reserves last year were 27.58 billion dlrs. In January, the nation's foreign reserves showed the largest-ever monthly increase at 9.22 billion dlrs due to massive Bank of Japan dollar buying intervention during the month as the dollar fell briefly to an all-time low of 149.98 yen on January 19, foreign exchange dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS SOME 95,000 TONNES SOYBEANS FROM CHINA

Japanese importers bought some 95,000 tonnes of Chinese soybeans late last month for May to September shipment, under the semi-annual trade accords, trade sources said. The FOB premium rose to 13.50 dlrs per tonne, up 2.50 dlrs from the premium for the November to April shipment, but down from 13.80 for the last May to September shipment. Flat prices for Chinese beans are based on futures prices in Chicago plus the FOB premium. Japanese purchases of Chinese soybeans, including spot buying, may have totalled 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes of the 1986 crop for November to April 1987 shipment, down from some 300,000 tonnes the previous year, the sources said. Domestic demand for edible-use soybeans is expected to remain stable at about 240,000 to 250,000 tonnes a year, the sources said. In recent years Japanese importers have overbought Chinese edible-use soybeans and sold the surplus to domestic crushers, but low 1986 U.S. Crop prices have discouraged the purchase of Chinese origin beans for crushing, they said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS COOL ON NIGERIAN DEBT TALKS

Japanese banks are expected to give Nigerian debt negotiators a cool response when they arrive here tomorrow for talks, banking sources said. "We're not very enthusiastic about Nigeria's debt rescheduling," said a senior official at a leading Japanese bank. A team of Nigerian officials will meet with Japanese creditor banks here later this week to seek Japanese support for a proposed refinancing of part of Nigeria's 19 billion dlr foreign debt, bankers said. The senior bank official said a majority of Japanese bank creditors are unwilling to provide any new credits to Nigeria although about 80 pct have reluctantly agreed to accept rescheduling of part of their existing loans. "The problem is Nigeria has so far neglected us Japanese creditors and we have yet to receive a clear-cut picture of the nation's debt situation," said another Japanese bank official. He said Japanese bankers were unaware of the exact extent of Western commercial bank exposure to Nigeria and were uncertain about the proposed refinancing package details. Some 21 Japanese banks have loans outstanding to Nigeria, representing about four pct of the credit extended by Western commercial institutions, banking sources said. They said Nigeria would probably request about 320 mln dlrs in fresh private bank money and rescheduling of some 1.4 to 1.5 billion dlrs in existing loans due in 1986 and 1987. Japanese banks want Nigeria to make clear its debt repayment scheme as well as its economic reconstruction plans during the two-day meeting here, the sources added. "Otherwise, our response will be very negative," the senior official said. Banking sources said some 80 pct of international creditor banks involved have responded positively to the Nigerian debt proposal. Bank of Japan officials said they hope Japanese commercial banks will help Nigeria overcome its debt problems. Barclays Bank plc <BCS.L> has the most exposure to Nigeria's debt and is chairing a bank steering committee looking at the problem, the banking sources said. BankAmerica Corp <BAC.N> is coordinating private bank creditors in the Far East and representing them on the committee, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN SALES TAX MAY FORCE NAKASONE OUT OF OFFICE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is likely to leave office this summer amid opposition to his controversial tax-reform package, political analysts said. They said Nakasone's reputation as a skilled politician has suffered irreparable damage from his support of a five pct sales tax planned for January 1988. "Nakasone is trying to carry out a drastic tax reform at the end of his administration, which is not only impossible but also is very irresponsible as a politican," Rei Shiratori, professor of politics at Dokkyo University, told Reuters. "Nakasone will almost certainly step down as soon as parliament approves the sales tax, probably in the summer," Shiratori said. Some ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) members of parliament have spoken against the tax, which Nakasone says is needed to balance planned cuts in income and corporate taxes. Nakasone today called for disciplinary action against LDP members who oppose the tax. "There are some who are objecting because of their constituencies," he told a meeting of government and party leaders. "If the party discipline is broken, I would like to see punishment considered." "A proposed sales tax has become a political issue, partly because Nakasone breached his election pledge against introducing it," Shiratori said. "Moreover, the tax is being introduced when the public feels uncertainty about the sluggish economy stemming from the yen's appreciation and about the future when the Japanese society is rapidly aging," he said. Political analysts said the controversial tax could affect the more than 2,500 local elections scheduled for April, involving governors, mayors, town and village heads and assemblies at all levels. But the situation is complicated, since opposition parties excluding the communists sometimes put up joint candidates with the LDP, the political analysts added. Shiratori said, "In the worst case, implementation of the sales tax, now scheduled for next January, may be put off for some time before the government makes a final decision. "Another alternative is to modify the planned five pct to perhaps three pct. "A third alternative for the government is to ram through the bills only with the attendance of LDP MPs," he said. Seizaburo Sato, professor of politics at Tokyo University, thought the last possibility most likely. "I think the LDP alone will take a vote on the tax bills," he said. The LDP now holds 304 seats in the 512-seat Lower House and 143 in the 252-seat Upper House. To lure opposition parties back to parliament after the LDP pushes through the tax bills, the Nakasone cabinet will have to resign, Sato said. "Boycotting opposition members will be more willing to return to parliament if a new cabinet has been formed," he said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO PROMOTE INTEREST RATE LIBERALISATION

The Bank of Japan decided at a policy board meeting to promote further interest rate liberalisation by lowering the minimum denomination of regulation-free large deposits and by raising the interest rate ceiling on money market certificates (MMCs), a central bank official said. The new guideline will go into effect on April 6, the bank said. Under the guideline, the minimum denomination of regulation-free large deposits will be lowered to 100 mln yen from 300 mln. The interest rate ceiling of MMCs with maturities of between one year and two years will be set at 0.5 percentage point below the prevailing certificate of deposit rate, the bank said. But the ceiling on MMCs with maturities of one year or less will remain the same, or 0.75 percentage point below the CD rates. The minimum denomination of MMCs will be lowered to 10 mln yen from 30 mln. The bank also said time deposit rates will be lowered by 0.37 point, effective March 16, in line with the half-point cut in the official discount rate on February 23. New interest rates on two-year and one-year deposits at banks, for example, will be 3.64 pct and 3.39 pct per annum, respectively. Demand deposit rates, however, will remain the same. REUTER 
OECD SAYS JAPAN RESOLVED TO STIMULATE DEMAND

Japan appears resolved to encourage domestic demand for its goods instead of relying on exports to support its economy, Jean-Claude Paye, Director General of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), told a news conference. Paye has been in Japan exchanging views on problems confronting the world economy and the role of the OECD. He met with Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari, Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita and other high-ranking Japanese officials. Reuter 
JAPAN UNEMPLOYMNENT RISES TO RECORD IN JANUARY

Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.0 pct in January, the worst since the Government started compiling unemployment statistics under its current system in 1953, up from the previous record 2.9 pct in December, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted January unemployment totalled 1.82 mln people, up from 1.61 mln in December and 1.65 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in January remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-worst level set last December. Record male unemployement of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment in January remained at 3.0 pct, equal to the record level marked in April, August, September and December last year. January's record 3.0 pct unemployment rate mainly stemmed from loss of jobs in manufacturing industries, particularly in export-related firms, due to the yen's continuing appreciation against the dollar, officials said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 380,000 from a year earlier to 14.30 mln including 1.83 mln employed in the textile industry, down 190,000 from a year earlier, and 1.06 mln in transport industries such as carmakers and shipbuilders, down 170,000. REUTER 
JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE SEEN RISING TO 3.5 PCT

Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. The economists said the service sector should grow as the government stimulates domestic demand under its program to transform the economy away from exports. Although Japanese unemployment rates appear lower than those of other industrialised nations, methods for calculating statistics make them difficult to compare, economists warned. "The three pct figure could translate into a relatively high figure if European methods were used," one economist said. More than half of January's 170,000 increase in jobless from a year earlier were those aged between 15 and 24, Sumitomo's Tsukihara said. REUTER 
PEMEX SIGNS 500 MLN DLR JAPAN LOAN FOR PIPELINE

Mexican state oil firm Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) signed for a 500 mln dlruntied loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan to finance its Pacific Petroleum Project, Pemex Japan representative Tito Ayal said. No further details on the loan were immediately available. Ayala told an oil seminar the project, due for completion in 1988, is aimed at improving distribution of oil products in the domestic market, mainly along the Pacific coast. The project consists of a pipeline linking Nueva Teapa on the Gulf of Mexico with Salina Cruz on the Pacific Coast, and construction of the second phase of the Salina Cruz refinery. The project also includes construction of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) storage tanks at Santa Cruz, additional crude oil storage at both ends of the pipeline, an ammonia complex at Lazaro Cardenas on the Pacific Coast and expansion of the infrastructure of the port of Salina Cruz, Ayala said. Pemex will buy 80 mln dlrs worth of foreign equipment and materials for the project, he said. The new pipeline will enable Japan to load Mexico's Maya crude oil at Salina Cruz rather than in the Gulf of Mexico. Pemex will also have some LPG surplus available in Salina Cruz that may help Japan diversify its supply sources of that product, he added. REUTER 
AIRBUS SIGNS ONE BILLION DLR JAPANESE CONTRACT

The European <Airbus Industrie> consortium has signed a one billion dlr contract to sell 10 A320 short-haul jets to <All Nippon Airways> of Japan, with an option on the sale of a further 10 planes, an Airbus spokesman said today. The 10 planes on firm order will be delivered between September, 1990 and November, 1991, and will be powered either by CFM-56-5S engines made by the Franco-U.S. <CFM International> consortium, or V2500S engines built by the <International Aero Engine> group. The spokesman declined to comment on a New York Times report that Airbus is about to announce a sale to American Airlines. But industry sources said American was about to announce the purchase of 25 wide-bodied planes from Airbus, as well as 15 747s from Boeing Co <BAN>. Airbus has already signed large deals with Pan Am Corp <PNN>, NWA Inc <NWA> and Eastern Airlines Inc <EALN>, as well as a smaller contract with <Continental Airlines>. The A320 made its first flight on February 22 and is not due to enter commercial service until March next year. The All Nippon purchase brings the total number of commitments to the A320 to 439 from 16 airlines, comprising 275 firm orders and 164 options. REUTER 
JAPAN'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE SEEN RISING TO 3.5 PCT

Japan's unemployment rate is expected to continue to climb to about 3.5 pct within the next year from January's three pct record, senior economists, including Susumu Taketomi of Industrial Bank of Japan, said. December's 2.9 pct was the previous worst level since the government's Management and Coordination Agency began compiling statistics under its current system in 1953. "There is a general fear that we will become a country with high unemployment," said Takashi Kiuchi, senior economist for the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. The government, which published the January unemployment figures today, did not make any predictions. "At present we do not have a forecast for the unemployment rate this year, but it is difficult to foresee the situation improving," a Labour Ministry official said. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the government had expected the increase and had set aside money to help 300,000 people find jobs in fiscal 1987 beginning in April. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told a press conference the record rate underlines the need to pass the 1987 budget which has been held up by opposition to proposed tax reforms. The yen's surge has caused layoffs in the mainstay steel and shipbuilding industries. Other export-dependent industries, such as cars and textiles, have laid off part-time employees and ceased hiring, economists said. Although the growing service industry sector has absorbed a great number of workers the trend is starting to slow down, said Koichi Tsukihara, Deputy General Manager of Sumitomo Bank Ltd's economics department. However, other economists disagreed, saying the service sector would be able to hire workers no longer needed by the manufacturing sector over the next five years. Reuter 
JAPAN BUYS 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for April shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
JAPAN FIRM DEVELOPS ULTRA HEAT-RESISTING RUBBER

Shin-Etsu Chemical Co Ltd said it had developed an ultra thermal resistance rubber which can be used at 250 centigrade continuously without losing its properties. Shin-Etsu put potential demand for the product at two tonnes a month mainly for microwave ovens and as a sealant. But increasing use of the product in parts attached to car engines will raise demand and the company will boost output to 10 tonnes by March 1988 from two now, he said. Reuter 
TAIWAN SHIPBUILDER LOOKS FOR JAPANESE VENTURES

Taiwan's state-owned China Shipbuilding Corp (CSBC) plans to seek joint production agreements with Japan and further diversify into ship repairing to try to trim its debts, chairman Louis Lo said. He told Reuters in an interview that CSBC's first joint production venture, to build two hulls for <Onomichi Dockyard Co Ltd>, was a success. Talks on similar projects have been held with other Japanese firms, including Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Co Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T>, he said. Lo said CSBC delivered the hulls of two 2,200-TEU (twenty foot equivalent unit) container ships this year to Onomichi, which would complete production. "We expect the successful cooperation between us and Onomichi will pave the way for further cooperation with other Japanese shipbuilders in the future," Lo said. He said Japanese firms would gain from the lower cost of shipbuilding in Taiwan while CSBC would benefit from Japanese technology and marketing. This would pose a challenge to competitors in Europe and South Korea. Lo said CSBC has made losses of about 100 mln U.S. Dlrs since beginning operations in 1975. Its total debt now stands at about 500 mln dlrs, with annual interest payments of nearly three mln dlrs. But he said the company, which is Taiwan's largest shipbuilder, still has full government support and had begun diversifying into ship repairing and manufacture of pipes and other machinery. "We hope we can survive and prosper through diversification," he said. Lo said income from ship repairing almost doubled to 20 mln U.S. Dlrs in the year ended June 1986 compared with the previous financial year. He estimated income would rise to more than 25 mln dlrs in 1986/87. CSBC has orders to build 10 ships totalling 460,000 dead weight tons (dwt) this financial year, compared with 11 ships of 462,000 dwt in 1985/86, he said. Lo said the prospects for shipbuilding were gloomy at least until 1991 due to overtonnage, but the outlook for ship repairing was bright. REUTER 
CREDITORS SEEK SWIFT RESCUE PACKAGE FOR JAPAN LINE

A group of creditor banks hopes to work out a rescue package for Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, one of the world's largest tanker operators, by the end of Japan's business year on March 31, a spokesman for the Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd <IBJT.T> (IBJ) said. Japan Line's cumulative debt was 68.98 billion yen at the end of September, which exceeded shareholders' equities and reserves totalling 63.40 billion. In December, Japan Line asked banks to shelve repayment of about 124 billion yen in outstanding loans and about 153 billion in loans to its subsidiaries. Japan Line said then that the yen's steep rise and the world shipping recession had hit the company hard. The Japanese daily Asahi Shimbun said today that IBJ and three other banks plan to abandon a total of 16 billion yen in loans to Japan Line and a group of creditor banks plans to buy seven billion yen of new Japan Line shares. The spokesman for IBJ, Japan Line's largest creditor, said the package may write off part of the outstanding loans and will be worked out before long. Commenting on the article, he said the details of the package have not yet been settled. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT EXPORTS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Australian wheat shipments rose to 1.33 mln tonnes in February from 1.01 mln in January, an Australian Wheat Board official said. February's shipments were down on the 1.54 mln tonnes shipped in February 1986. Cumulative shipments for the first five months of the October/September wheat year were 6.12 mln tonnes, as against 6.54 mln a year earlier, the official said. The major destinations in February were: China (419,196 tonnes), Egypt (301,909), Iraq (142,055), Japan (110,261), South Korea (100,847) and the Soviet Union (100,056 tonnes). REUTER 
OPEC STICKING FIRM ON OFFICIAL PRICES - SUBROTO

OPEC countries are all sticking firmly to official crude oil prices but the volatility of spot prices is likely to continue into the third quarter, Indonesian Minister of Mines and Energy Subroto told Reuters. Subroto, attending a Pacific Energy Cooperation conference, blamed recent rapid spot price changes on unbalanced supply and demand. "If we stick to the production limitation, the third quarter will be in better balance." He said the market is in a period of transition while the impact of OPEC's December agreement to cut output and fix prices at an average 18 dlrs a barrel is worked through. Asked whether OPEC members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) had any concrete proposals to help Qatar sell its crude oil in the face of strong resistance to its official prices, Subroto said: "Apparently they have taken care of that." "They (the GCC) meet very often among themselves. I think they'll help each other," he said. Subroto said that as he was not a member of OPEC's Price Differentials Committee he did not know why the meeting had been postponed from its scheduled April 2 date. "Maybe they find it is better not to have the meeting because ... Everyone is sticking to official prices," he said. REUTER 
AUSTRIA DECIDES EARLY REDEMPTION OF SAMURAI BOND

Austria has decided to redeem six years early a 20 billion yen, 12-year, 8.5 pct samurai bond due on August 18, 1993, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd said as lead manager. It will redeem 18.4 billion yen at 103.00 and the rest at par this August 18 under an annual redemption obligation, probably because of declining yen interest rates, Daiwa said. REUTER 
INDIA AND JAPAN TO DISCUSS IRON ORE PRICES

The state-owned Minerals and Metals Trading Corp will send a team to Japan next week to negotiate an iron ore export contract for 1987/88 beginning April 1, trade sources said. Japan, the biggest buyer of Indian iron ore with imports of around 23 mln tonnes a year, has asked India to reduce prices from the current average of 18 dlrs a tonne, the sources said. "Japan has said it may be forced to reduce ore imports from India next year if New Delhi fails to reduce the price," one source said, but declined to give further details. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS SEEN AGREEING DEBT RISK SCHEME

Japanese creditor banks are close to a decision to jointly establish an offshore firm to which they will transfer part of their title to possibly unrecoverable debts owed by developing nations, international financial sources told Reuters. Details of the deal are likely be decided next week and the firm set up before the end of the month, they said. The scheme is intended to improve financial management at the banks and reduce the risk of problems in the event of debts turning bad, the sources said. Last week's announcement by Brazil that it would indefinitely suspend interest payments on an estimated 68 billion dlrs owed to commercial banks prompted Japanese creditors to finalise the project, the sources said. Major Japanese banks have been considering a plan to avoid a debt crisis since the start of the year, they said. There are likely to be at least 10 participating banks, and perhaps as many as 28, they said. About 30 Japanese commercial banks have outstanding loans totalling over 10 billion dlrs to Brazil, accounting for about 15 pct of all commercial loans to that country. The most likely venue for the envisaged firm is the Caribbean tax haven of the Cayman Islands, the sources said. The idea is to create a pool of funds in the firm with participating creditor banks holding the firm's stock. The firm will then use the funds to buy from its stock-holding banks title to repayments of specified foreign loans which are potentially bad, the sources said. The stock-holding banks will draw up a list of such loans. Subject to the scheme would be loans extended to debt-ridden countries such as Mexico and Argentina, they said. The financial sources said interest payments to the firm would not be taxed because of its location. Japanese banks have asked the finance ministry to increase tax breaks on loan loss reserves, but the ministry has not yet complied. A senior ministry official welcomed the scheme and said it may encourage new lending to developing countries. The ministry instructs banks to establish reserves for up to five pct of their loans to 35 financially troubled countries, but it only grants tax breaks on reserves accounting for one pct of the loans. REUTER 
JAPAN RULING PARTY FIXES DATE OF BUDGET HEARING

Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party started moves to push through the delayed draft budget for 1987/88 through Parliament, deepening a clash with the opposition which called the move rash and unforgivable. In the absence of the opposition, LDP members of parliament decided at a meeting of the Lower House Steering Committee to hold a public hearing on the draft budget on March 13 and 14, parliamentary officials said. The step came after Parliament resumed deliberations last Tuesday following a month-long opposition boycott over a controversial government-proposed sales tax plan. Four opposition parties led by the Socialists have been delaying budget deliberations in a bid to shelve the sales tax on which the budget plan is based. A Socialist spokesman said the opposition would again boycott parliament unless the LDP changed its mind. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, who has vowed to push through the tax reforms, told reporters: "Watching closely negotiations between the ruling and opposition parties, I would like to avoid ... Passing (the budget) singlehandedly." The five pct tax, part of Nakasone's tax reform plan, is planned to start next January to help offset cuts in individual income and corporate tax. The opposition objected to fixing a date for the hearing because the LDP could technically stop deliberations on the budget and ram it through the budget committee and then a Lower House plenary session, political analysts said. The four opposition parties called the LDP move "an unforgivable, rash act" and said they would fight to scrap the sales tax. REUTER 
SAPPORO BREWERIES ISSUES FIVE YEAR SFR NOTES

Sapporo Breweries Ltd of Japan is issuing 100 mln Swiss francs of five year notes with a 4-5/8 pct coupon and 100-1/4 issue price, lead manager Swiss Bank Corp said. The issue is guaranteed by Fuji Bank. Payment is due March 17. Reuter 
BRAZILIAN FINANCE MINISTER EXTENDS TRIP TO JAPAN

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro will extend his international tour, flying to Japan for talks with government officials and representatives of banks to explain Brazil's decision to halt payment of part of its 109-billion dlrs foreign debt, Finance Ministry sources said. Funaro, who is in Rome today, will fly to Tokyo on Sunday, after having completed a week-long trip to the United States, France, England, Italy, West Germany and Switzerland. Brazil halted payment of interest rates on 68 billion dlrs owed to 700 private commercial foreign banks as part of an strategy to alleviate the burden of its commitments. Funaro, who is accompanied by Central Bank governor Francisco Gros, met only with government officials of the countries visited over the week. In Tokyo, however, he is due to meet private bankers, to whom Brazil owes some 6.8 billion dlrs, the sources said. He is due back in Brasilia next Wednesday, March 11, the sources added. Reuter 
PEMEX LOWERS FEBRUARY FAR EAST CRUDE OIL PRICES

The Mexican state oil company Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX) said its Far East customers would be charged 17.25 dlrs per barrel for Isthmus crude in February and 14.45 dlrs for the heavier Maya. Pemex said this was 32 cts less than January Isthmus and 15 cts less than January Maya. Far East customers, primarily Japan which buys an average 180,000 barrels per day of which 150,000 is Isthmus, pay retroactively while European and U.S. clients are charged per delivery. Reuter 
CANADA'S MOVE TO SHORTEN DEBT TERMS AIDS MARKET

The government's move to pare its huge financing costs by shortening debt maturities has left more room for other borrowers and sparked a lively market for treasury bills, senior market analysts said. The Bank of Canada, Ottawa's fiscal agent in the marketplace, revealed this week that sharply reduced borrowing needs has allowed the shift toward shorter bond terms and heavier emphasis on the weekly treasury bill auction, issued in terms of up to one year. "The aggressive use of the treasury bill program has meant that the government is now able to maintain lower cash balances and lower financing costs," the Bank of Canada said in its 1986 annual report released this week. The government has said its budget deficit financing requirements will fall to 24 billion dlrs in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1987, from 30 billion dlrs the prior year. Projected fiscal 1988 requirements are 21.3 billion dlrs. The bank said that of last year's 19 new government bond issues, nearly two-thirds were for maturities of less than 10 years. Greater use was also made of bond auctions to market new issues with terms in the two- to five-year range. Meanwhile, treasury bills outstanding at year end totalled nearly 70 billion dlrs, an increase of 10.3 billion dlrs over the year and 20 billion dlrs since 1984. Although the amount of money saved from moving away from the long bonds was not disclosed, bond experts believe it was considerable because of the much lower interest premiums paid on short term debt. But market watchers were unsure what affect the move will have on Japanese investors--who have been snapping up Canadian bonds at a record clip--because of their traditional preference for long term financings. Bond traders said the Japanese, who purchased a record 9.5 billion dlrs of Canadian bonds last year, have adapted to the changes by buying longer term provincial issues and shifting to the medium term issues offered by Ottawa. "Their (Japanese) buying over the course of the last six months has been very much concentrated in the medium term maturities," noted one Canadian bond trader who asked not to be identified. Yet there was some concern a shortage could eventually develop for bonds that mature in 10 or more years. Said David Gluskin, vice-president of Nesbitt Thomson Bongard Inc, "When interest rates finally seem to have stopped going down, there is going to be a flood of people trying to lock in the long end and not everyone will be able to get in the door." But bonds analysts said at the moment with interest rates trending down, investors appear to welcome the change, especially the greater treasury bill financing. "The wholesale market in treasury bills is very active," said Michael Berry, vice-president of the securities firm, Walwyn Stodgell Cohran Murray Ltd. The change also improves receptivity in the market for other borrowers, including provincial governments, the big utilities and corporations. "There doesn't seem to any lack of bonds in the longer end now, that also may be the result that any percieved shortage has probably been taken up by provincial funding activities," commented Berry. Reuter 
USSR TO CUT COAL PRICE FOR JAPANESE STEELMILLS

The Soviet Union has agreed to cut its coking coal export prices to Japanese steel mills by about five dlrs a tonne in 1987/88 starting April 1 in exchange for an increase in export volume, industry sources said. The prices were set at 44 dlrs a tonne for Neryungrinsky coal and at 43.80 dlrs for Kuznetsky coal, fob. Japan will import a total of 4.9 mln tonnes from both areas, up from 4.2 mln a year earlier, they said. The steelmakers had asked Moscow to agree to a cutback to 3.7 mln tonnes in 1987/88, but the Soviet Union urged Japan to increase the amount to 6.5 mln, they said. REUTER 
IRAN SELLING DISCOUNTED CRUDE, JAPAN TRADERS SAY

Japanese customers have bought nearly six mln barrels of crude oil from the National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) at a substantial discount to the official price, and Western traders have received even larger discounts, Japanese traders involved in the transactions told Reuters. NIOC has sold its crude for March shipment to Japanese customers with different formulas. One company has bought 800,000 barrels of Iranian Heavy at a straight discount of 30-35 cents below the official price, the sources said. Other deals have been fixed with prices linked to Oman and Dubai spot prices less a discount, they said. Iran's discounted sales have not, however, managed to reverse the bullish tone in the crude oil and products spot markets, oil traders said. Market sentiment is being influenced more by the colder weather in Europe, and reports that OPEC's February output was below its self-imposed quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day. Firmer gas oil on the London futures, and more bullish sentiment on the New York Mercantile Exchange futures market are supporting spot price levels, they said. Another Japanese trading house has paid the official price but through a processing arrangement will effectively receive a discount, the sources said. "It's just disguised cheating," one Japanese trader said. The sources said only one Japanese company had paid the official price for Iranian oil. It has purchased 1.5 mln barrels of Iranian Heavy for April shipment for refining in Singapore. They said about nine VLCCs of Iranian crude have been sold to Western traders with pricing based 60 pct on the official price and 40 pct on spot prices, or with part of the price related to processing arrangements. 
HUTCHISON UNIT BUYS CONTAINER CRANES FROM JAPAN

Container port operator, <Hong Kong International Terminals Ltd>, a 89 pct held unit of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd <HWHH.HK>, said it has placed a 164 mln H.K. Dlr order for seven quayside container cranes of 800 tons each with Japan's Mitsui Engineering and Shipbuilding Co Ltd <MSET.T> for May 1988 to August 1989 delivery. Hong Kong International Terminals operates 32 cranes. REUTER 
JAPAN EX-IM BANK SAYS NO NEW COMMITMENTS TO BRAZIL

Export-Import Bank of Japan president Takashi Tanaka told Brazil the bank will continue to cooperate with it, but he refrained from making any commitment to a new credit, Ex-Im officials said. In a 30-minute meeting, Tanaka told Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro the bank would consider his country's request for a 300 mln dlr credit in the context of international cooperation, the officials said. They said this meant the Ex-Im Bank would grant the credit as part of a package with money from the International Monetary Fund and private banks. Brazil has resisted going to the IMF for help because it fears that the Fund will ask for changes in its economic policies that will throw it into recession. Brazil first requested the 300 mln dlr credit last November, to help it develop the sale and generation of electric power. Funaro renewed the request today. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS PARIS ACCORD HELPING STABILISE RATES

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord has contributed to the stability of exchange rates. Miyazawa told a press conference the agreement reached last month in Paris by six major industrial nations to cooperate in bringing about currency stability has prevented speculative concerns from being active in money centres. The decision in Paris is being understood by the market, he said. The yen-dollar exchange rate has been moving in a narrow range since finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany reached the accord. REUTER 
POLES SAID HELD IN JAPAN ON COMPUTER THEFT CHARGES

Police arrested two Polish citizens for trying to steal Japanese computer technology, local media reports said today. The reports said the two had worked at a computer-related company in Tokyo and visited Japanese computer makers several times after coming to Japan on tourist visas last October. One report said they were computer specialists at a Polish technology institute, and that the company they worked for was managed by a naturalised Japanese from Poland who was a graduate of the institute. Police officials declined to comment on the reports. REUTER 
Sumita says little room for Bank of Japan to further ease credit policy



SUMITA SAYS LITTLE ROOM FOR BANK TO EASE POLICY

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said there is little room left for the central bank to further ease its credit policy as interest rates levels are now approaching their lower limit. "The government should instead seek ways of making the best use of its fiscal policy," he told a press conference. His remarks were concerned with a comprehensive economic stimulative package the government plans to adopt in the coming days. At the recent talks among the six major industrialised nations in Paris, Japan promised to work out a comprehensive economic package to boost domestic demand, which in turn would help increase its imports and reduce its trade surplus. Sumita also said the economy will show a gradual upturn in the second half of the year if the yen remains stable. He said there is caution in the foreign exchange market against a further rise of the yen and mark and this explains the recent stability in the currency markets. Conflicting economic indicators from the U.S. Have also been dampening market activity, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN MAY INCREASE ITS BRAZILIAN SOYBEAN PURCHASES

Japanese crushers are likely to buy at least 200,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans this year and another 100,000 to 200,000 if quality and shipping conditions are good against 128,089 tonnes in 1986, trade sources said. A Japanese trading house recently bought about 31,000 tonnes of soybeans for April 10/May 10 shipment, they said. "Because Brazilian soybean prices are now some 10 cents a bushel cheaper than U.S. Origin due to the bumper harvest, it is highly likely that Japanese crushers will increase their buying volume," one source said. Brazilian beans are available to Japan for shipment from May to July. REUTER 
JAPAN AND THAILAND TO JOINTLY EXTRACT RARE METALS

Japan's Agency of Natural Resources and Energy said it will begin experiments with Thailand at the end of March to start commercial production of rare metals in 1989 under a joint project. An agency official said it will set up a 500 mln yen pilot plant in Bangkok which will extract high quality rare metals such as titanium and niobium from sand left over from tin production processes in Thailand. The plant wilq use about a tonne of sand per day, although it is unclear how much rare metal will be extracted, the official said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S JOBLESS SEEN RISING TO 3.3 PCT IN 1987/88

The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures. REUTER 
JAPAN }O CURB VEHICLE EXPORTS TO EC

Japanese car makers will curb their exports to the European Community (EC) following an unofficial directive from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), automobile industry sources said. Some sources said exports to the EC this year are likely to be at most unchanged from last year's 1.10 mln units and may even fall due to an anticipated slackening of EC economic growth and increasing trade friction. Last week, MITI vice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda said the ministry had asked car makers to exercise prudence in exporting to Europe. Japanese car makers boosted exports to the EC in January to build up depleted vehicle inventories, industry sources said. Japan's vehicle exports to Europe in January rose 38 pct from a year earlier to 174,133 units. In December, exports fell 70.4 pct year-on-year as makers curbed shipments to meet an earlier directive from MITI to limit 1986 exports, they said. REUTER 
NAKASONE SET TO STAY UNTIL TAX REFORM APPROVED

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will step down only after his plan to overhaul Japan's tax system gets parliamentary approval, one of his closest aides said today. The aide, who declined to be identified, said at a private meeting, "Nakasone's power in office does not necessarily terminate at the end of his term in October. It depends on when (the) seven tax reform bills get parliamentary approval." Nakasone vowed yesterday to press on with his plan despite Sunday's unexpected Upper House by-election defeat of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in a conservative stronghold. The socialist winner, backed by other opposition parties, had campaigned against a controversial five pct value added sales tax, the main plank of the reform plans. The aide dismissed the possibility of any amendment of the sales tax on the grounds the opposition parties were demanding nothing but retraction of the tax. They have been refusing to discuss a draft budget for the 1987 fiscal year starting on April 1, which includes the tax plans. They have been resorting to an on-off boycott of parliament since February 4. "If I were Nakasone, I would close the current regular parliamentary session on May 27 as scheduled, attend the Venice summit of industrial democracies in June and open an extraordinary session to discuss the tax plans," the aide said. Under law, a regular session can be extended only once while an extraordinary session can be extended twice.The other option would be to extend the current session, he said. "The opposition parties will surely present a no-confidence motion against the Nakasone Cabinet at one stage or another." One scenario then will be to reject the motion opening up the way for tax reform. "Another scenario is the resignation of the Nakasone Cabinet en masse. A third scenario is a dissolution of the Lower House for a snap general election," the aide said. That is only possible if the 200 opposition members resign from the 512-seat Lower House, necessitating by-elections. The LDP now has 304 seats in the Lower House after its landslide victory in general elections last July. There are five independents and three vacancies. "The LDP which will put up candidates will certainly inflate their seats, but at the expense of fierce media criticism," the aide said. He said he expected the proposed sales tax to have little effect on local elections to be held on April 12 and 26. About 2,600 elections will be held in all but three of the nation's 47 prefectures including 13 gubernatorial elections. "Candidates running in prefectural assemblies will all oppose the sales tax irrespective of their party tickets. "Possible effects, if any, will be on gubernatorial elections in Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido and Fukuoka in southern Japan," he said. The two posts are now held by opposition socialists. REUTER 
JAPAN'S JOBLESS SEEN RISING TO 3.3 PCT IN 1987/88

The yen's rise against the dollar is expected to boost Japan's unemployment rate to an average 3.3 pct in the 1987/88 fiscal year beginning April 1 from January's record three pct, the private Nomura Research Institute said. The official 1987/88 estimate is 2.9 pct. The research arm of Nomura Securities Co forecast unemployment would exceed two mln by mid-fiscal 1987, against an estimated 1.75 mln for the current year. Nomura urged the government to take pump-priming measures to help redress trade imbalances and boost employment. Employment in manufacturing during fiscal 1987/88 was predicted to fall 550,000 from the current year due to higher job losses in the steel, shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery sectors, Nomura said. Employment in the non-manufacturing sector will continue to increase, the institute said, without giving figures. REUTER 
JAPANESE 150 BILLION YEN LOAN FOR INDONESIA

Indonesia signed an agreement to borrow up to 150 billion yen in an untied yen loan from Japan's governmental Export-Import Bank, a bank spokesman said. The accord on the loan for Indonesia's 21 development projects was signed by the visiting Indonesian Finance Minister Radius Prawiro and Ex-Im President Takashi Tanaka, the spokesman said. The loan will be the bank's first untied loan to an Asian country in co-financing with the World Bank, but it will not be tied to purchase of Japanese goods or services, he said. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS LITTLE ROOM FOR BANK TO EASE POLICY

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said there is little room left for the central bank to further ease its credit policy as interest rates levels are now approaching their lower limit. "The government should instead seek ways of making the best use of its fiscal policy," he told a press conference. His remarks were concerned with a comprehensive economic stimulative package the government plans to adopt in the coming days. At the recent talks among the six major industrialised nations in Paris, Japan promised to work out a comprehensive economic package to boost domestic demand, which in turn would help increase its imports and reduce its trade surplus. Sumita also said the economy will show a gradual upturn in the second half of the year if the yen remains stable. He said there is caution in the foreign exchange market against a further rise of the yen and mark and this explains the recent stability in the currency markets. Conflicting economic indicators from the U.S. Have also been dampening market activity, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN TO CURB VEHICLE EXPORTS TO EC

Japanese car makers will curb their exports to the European Community (EC) following an unofficial directive from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), automobile industry sources said. Some sources said exports to the EC this year are likely to be at most unchanged from last year's 1.10 mln units and may even fall due to an anticipated slackening of EC economic growth and increasing trade friction. Last week, MITI vice minister for international affairs Makoto Kuroda said the ministry had asked car makers to exercise prudence in exporting to Europe. Reuter 
NAKASONE SET TO STAY UNTIL TAX REFORM APPROVED

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone will step down only after his plan to overhaul Japan's tax system gets parliamentary approval, one of his closest aides said today. The aide, who declined to be identified, said at a private meeting, "Nakasone's power in office does not necessarily terminate at the end of his term in October. It depends on when (the) seven tax reform bills get parliamentary approval." Nakasone vowed yesterday to press on with his plan despite Sunday's unexpected Upper House by-election defeat of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in a conservative stronghold. The socialist winner, backed by other opposition parties, had campaigned against a controversial five pct value added sales tax, the main plank of the reform plans. The aide dismissed the possibility of any amendment of the sales tax on the grounds the opposition parties were demanding nothing but retraction of the tax. They have been refusing to discuss a draft budget for the 1987 fiscal year starting on April 1, which includes the tax plans. They have been resorting to an on-off boycott of parliament since February 4. "If I were Nakasone, I would close the current regular parliamentary session on May 27 as scheduled, attend the Venice summit of industrial democracies in June and open an extraordinary session to discuss the tax plans," the aide said. Under law, a regular session can be extended only once while an extraordinary session can be extended twice.The other option would be to extend the current session, he said. "The opposition parties will surely present a no-confidence motion against the Nakasone Cabinet at one stage or another." One scenario then will be to reject the motion opening up the way for tax reform. "Another scenario is the resignation of the Nakasone Cabinet en masse. A third scenario is a dissolution of the Lower House for a snap general election," the aide said. That is only possible if the 200 opposition members resign from the 512-seat Lower House, necessitating by-elections. The LDP now has 304 seats in the Lower House after its landslide victory in general elections last July. There are five independents and three vacancies. "The LDP which will put up candidates will certainly inflate their seats, but at the expense of fierce media criticism," the aide said. He said he expected the proposed sales tax to have little effect on local elections to be held on April 12 and 26. About 2,600 elections will be held in all but three of the nation's 47 prefectures including 13 gubernatorial elections. "Candidates running in prefectural assemblies will all oppose the sales tax irrespective of their party tickets. "Possible effects, if any, will be on gubernatorial elections in Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido and Fukuoka in southern Japan," he said. The two posts are now held by opposition socialists. REUTER 
TONEN SEKIYU AND EXXON UNIT STUDYING RESIN PROJECT

<Tonen Sekiyukagaku KK> and <Exxon Chemical Co>, a petrochemical division of Exxon Corp <XON>, said they agreed to accelerate a study to set up an equally-owned joint venture to make waterwhite resin in Japan. Details of the venture, to be based on Exxon Chemical technology, will be set later, the companies said. Waterwhite resins are widely used in adhesive applications for baby nappies, medical tapes, and other bonding agents. Tonen is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Toa Nenryo Kogyo KK <TNEN.T> which is owned 25 pct by Exxon Corp. REUTER 
CONVERTIBLE YEN BOND BROKERAGE FEE MAY BE CUT

The Tokyo Stock Exchange said in a statement it is considering reducing brokerage fees on yen convertible bonds. The cut would be in response to a planned increase in securities transaction tax to 26 yen per 10,000 yen from 4.5 as part of the government's proposed tax reform bills, securities house managers said. Under the current system, investors must also pay 0.6 pct of face value as brokerage fee to securities houses for transactions involving principal over 30 mln yen. The exchange's draft revision sets brokerage fee percentage rates in inverse proportion to the size of amounts transacted, market sources said. Details of rates on transactions under 30 mln yen have yet to be worked out, an exchange spokesman said. The news had little immediate impact on the convertible bond market because participants are unsure when the new rates will be introduced and because the timing of parliamentary approval of the tax reform bills is uncertain due to opposition to them, securities dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMY MAY BE NEAR BOTTOM, ECONOMISTS SAY

The worst may be just about over for Japan's battered economy but economists said they do not expect a vigorous recovery anytime soon. Japanese bank economists polled by Reuters said the economy's 18 month-old slowdown is likely to end in the first half of this year, helped by rising exports, stepped-up government spending and falling prices. "The economy will bottom out in the middle of the year," said Sumitomo Bank Ltd chief economist, Masahiko Koido. Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd senior economist Susumu Taketomi agreed. "It (the bottom) is in the offing," he said. But he added that the recovery will be slow. Growth in the fiscal year beginning next month will only pick-up 2.2 pct, from two pct in the current year, he said. Signs that the economy has just about weathered the worst are increasing. The volume of exports in the first two months of the year rose slightly on a year-on-year basis, after declining toward the end of last year. Although this may be due to extraordinary factors such as a sharp rise in car exports to rebuild depleted European stocks, several economists said it could mark the beginning of a recovery. Industrial production fell 0.7 pct in January, much smaller than expected, and is forecast by the government to rise 0.3 pct in February and 2.6 pct in March. A Bank of Japan survey released last week showed that the decline in Japanese corporate earnings may be nearing its end. And the Paris currency accord last month has fostered hopes the rapid yen rise has come to the end, they said. Six nations - the U.K., Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - pledged in Paris last month to stabilise currencies around current levels. The yen's 40 pct climb against the dollar over the last two years has hit the export-driven economy hard, by forcing its companies to raise prices and lose sales in the U.S. Market. "The important thing is the exchange rate," Taketomi said. If it stabilises firms will grow more confident and raise investment in plant and equipment, although there are no signs of that yet, economists said. A stable yen would also help exporters regain some of their competitive edge just as the U.S economy may be starting to recover, economists said. Domestically, the economy may get a boost from some loosening of the government's tight fiscal policy said Haruo Muto, manager of national economics at the Bank of Tokyo Ltd. The next reading of the economy's health should come early next week with the release of gnp figures for the last quarter, 1986. Most private economists expect a rise of about 0.5 pct from the previous quarter. In the third quarter, GNP rose 0.6 pct. But a senior government official said the fourth quarter figures could surprise by showing a rise of more than one point quarter-on-quarter. But he added that would be a statistical aberration and not a significant shift in economic activity. To maintain year-on-year growth of around 2.5 pct, the economy would have had to rise about 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter as the final quarter of 1985 was strong. The rise in the fourth quarter of 1985 was probably a statistical anomaly that was repeated in the final months of 1986, the official said. Economists said the fourth quarter figures were also distorted by the government's sale of gold coins in the second half of 1986. Because the coins were classified as legal tender, their purchase did not show up in the statistics on consumer expenditure. Consumer spending also tailed off in December because of bad weather and smaller-than-normal end-year bonuses, they said. As the government had to buy back some of the coins from retailers because they were unsold, the government's contribution to the economy in the fourth quarter may have been boosted, economists said. Taketomi said it may have received a further boost from government buying of farm products as the domestic crop last year was good. The senior government official said the fourth quarter performance of the domestic sector was probably worse than generally expected, while that of the external sector was better. REUTER 
MOST JAPAN FIRMS NOT RENEWING IRAN TERM CONTRACTS

Most Japanese companies have decided not to renew term contracts to lift Iranian crude oil because spot prices remain considerably lower than OPEC's official levels, industry sources said. They said a cargo of the Mideast benchmark crude Dubai traded yesterday at 16.50 dlrs a barrel, compared to its official price of 17.42 dlrs. Only one Japanese company has renewed its term contract for Iranian crude oil for the second quarter, the sources said. The sources said Japanese companies had been lifting a total of about 185,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Iranian crude under term contracts, but only one firm has agreed to lift in the second quarter. It is lifting just 10,000 to 15,000 bpd. They said this move could inspire Iran to offer discounts on cargoes loading in April, but the likelihood of discounts depended largely on the levels of spot prices. "If the spot price of Dubai goes above 17.30 dlrs we would probably buy Iranian crude at the official price," one Japanese refiner said. "We don't intend to put pressure on them," he added. Buyers have little incentive to renew contracts to lift oil at official OPEC prices while spot prices on all grades are considerably lower, oil traders said. They said if spot prices move higher there will be no problem finding OPEC crude to purchase at the official prices. Qatar has chartered floating storage for its crude oil after finding no buyers at official prices in March. The problem is likely to recur in April, adding to that country's surplus. The traders added that Iraq had dissociated itself from OPEC's December production agreement, while agreeing to the fixed prices. But oil analysts said if OPEC keeps group output close to its first-half 1987 ceiling of 15.8 mln bpd, supply and demand would be balanced by the end of the second quarter. They also said if OPEC holds its official price structure based on a reference price of 18 dlrs, spot price fluctuations should be limited to a 16.50 to 17.20 dlrs range for Dubai and a 17 to 18 dlrs range for the North Sea's Brent blend. One Japanese refiner said, "At the moment there's a lot of pressure on OPEC, particularly on Qatar. But if they hold out there will be no problem, and I'm beginning to trust their ability." Nigerian oil minister and OPEC president Rilwanu Lukman told a news conference in Lagos yesterday, "Nigeria and all member countries of OPEC remain determined to uphold the December agreement by adhering strictly to their various quotas and official selling prices." He said OPEC believed consumers had drawn heavily on stocks of both crude oil and refined products, reducing them to levels well below this time last year. He said consumers would soon return to the market in search of crude. A Japanese refiner said, "The European and U.S. Markets are beginning to look better so OPEC might be quite lucky." 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 8,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for April shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not say for how long. The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability. Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange rates. REUTER 
KIDNAPPED JAPANESE BUSINESSMAN ALIVE - CARDINAL

Kidnapped Japanese businessman Noboyuki Wakaoji is alive and well and may soon be released, Cardinal Jaime Sin, the archbishop of Manila, said. Wakaoji, head of the Philippines branch of Mitsui and Co Ltd, is being visited on a daily basis by a senior priest, Sin told reporters at a briefing. He refused to reveal Wakaoji's whereabouts. The businessman was kidnapped last November and his captors have demanded a five mln dlr ransom from Mitsui. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS 1987/88 FIRST HALF BEEF IMPORT QUOTA

The Agriculture Ministry said it set Japan's beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at 93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and 85,000 a year earlier. Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan has been increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31, 1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March 31, 1988. REUTER 
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE

International Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- and medium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen's rise and can only stand levels around 170 yen. He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate level plus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreed upon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations. Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate in stabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. The dollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER 
JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS SEEK CARTEL TO RESTRICT OUTPUT

Japanese shipbuilders have applied to the state's Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to restrict tonnage built to about half of total capacity for the year starting April 1, officials of the Shipbuilders Association of Japan said. Under the plan, 33 yards capable of building ships of more than 10,000 gross tons will curtail operations to three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) a year against capacity of about six mln CGRT. The Transport Ministry estimates new orders at 3.3 mln CGRT in the year to March 1988 and 3.1 mln the following year. The industry has curtailed production due to oversupply nearly every year since 1977/78, under cartel or Transport Ministry guidelines. The latest guidelines call for a ceiling of four mln CGRT in the year to March 31. The cartels, self-imposed and self-regulated, are not legally binding, but industry finds it in its own interest to stick to them. The slowdown in orders has been caused by the strong yen and a protracted worldwide shipbuilding slump. REUTER 
JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES

The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said. The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE

The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future, the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER 
NAKASONE REFUSES TO DROP SALES TAX

Japan's Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has refused to drop a proposed sales tax as debate on a draft budget for 1987 resumed after a nine-day opposition boycott. "I have no plan to withdraw the sales tax as I think it is the best policy (for Japan)," Nakasone told the budget committee of the lower house of parliament. Kyodo News Agency said a small group of members of Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party filed a complaint with their local headquarters calling for his expulsion from the party on the grounds he broke a campaign pledge by introducing the sales tax. Nakasone admitted the tax was a major factor in an upper house by-election defeat for his party on Sunday. The election was the first national-level poll since Nakasone presented his plan for overhauling Japan's tax system, which has remained unaltered for the past 36 years. The sales tax and the planned abolition of the tax-free saving system are designed to offset proposed income and corporate tax cuts. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six major industrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yen should stay stable around current levels in the future. The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapid fluctuation of exchange rates, he said. The accord stipulated that current rates reflect fundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER 
JAPAN PERSONAL SAVINGS SOAR IN 1986

Japanese personal savings grew 10.3 pct in 1986 from 1985 helped by a sharp increase in stock investments by individuals, the Bank of Japan said. Outstanding savings on December 31, 1986 totalled 545,303 billion yen. Funds in investment trusts alone totalled 21,918 billion yen, up 37.4 pct from a year earlier. The outstanding balance also included deposits at banks and post offices, up 7.4 pct to 337,867 billion yen, savings in the form of insurance, up 18.6 pct to 111,431 billion, corporate bond investments, up 7.8 pct to 46,867 billion, and investments in trust banks, up 4.1 pct to 27,220 billion. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS PRESENT YEN NOT NECESSARILY IDEAL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary session the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Miyazawa said the Paris currency accord among six major industrial nations last month does not necessarily mean the yen should stay stable around current levels in the future. The Paris agreement was aimed at stopping a further rapid fluctuation of exchange rates, he said. The accord stipulated that current rates reflect fundamentals of the six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany. REUTER 
NAKASONE REFUSES TO DROP SALES TAX

Japan's Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has refused to drop a proposed sales tax as debate on a draft budget for 1987 resumed after a nine-day opposition boycott. "I have no plan to withdraw the sales tax as I think it is the best policy (for Japan)," Nakasone told the budget committee of the lower house of parliament. Kyodo News Agency said a small group of members of Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party filed a complaint with their local headquarters calling for his expulsion from the party on the grounds he broke a campaign pledge by introducing the sales tax. Nakasone admitted the tax was a major factor in an upper house by-election defeat for his party on Sunday. The election was the first national-level poll since Nakasone presented his plan for overhauling Japan's tax system, which has remained unaltered for the past 36 years. The sales tax and the planned abolition of the tax-free saving system are designed to offset proposed income and corporate tax cuts. REUTER 
JAPAN CABINET APPROVES BILL ON GOLD COIN ISSUES

The cabinet has approved a bill making it easier for the government to issue commemorative coins, a Finance Ministry official said. The bill, which must still be approved by parliament, would take effect in April 1988. It would allow the government to issue 1,000, 5,000 and 10,000 yen coins without special legislation, although higher-valued coins would still need a special law, the official said. At present it can only issue coins of 500 yen or less. REUTER 
JAPAN MINISTER SAYS ABOUT 170 YEN APPROPRIATE

International Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura told a parliamentary session Japan's small- and medium-sized enterprises are seriously suffering from the yen's rise and can only stand levels around 170 yen. He also said he still believes a dollar exchange rate level plus or minus 10 yen from 170 yen would be within levels agreed upon last month in Paris by six major industrial nations. Finance ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed on February 22 to cooperate in stabilizing exchange rates around the current levels. The dollar had closed here at 153.77 yen on February 20. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS EXCHANGE RATES WILL STAY STABLE

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference he thinks exchange rates will remain stable due to the currency accord reached in Paris last month by six major industrialised nations but he did not say for how long. The dollar has hovered around 153 yen since the six agreed to cooperate to bring about currency stability. Asked to comment on remarks by some U.S. Officials calling for a further decline of the dollar, Miyazawa said only the U.S. President and the U.S. Treasury Secretary can make official statements about exchange rates. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN CALLS FOR LONG-TERM EFFORTS ON TRADE

The short-term effect of foreign exchange rate movements in correcting international trade imbalances appears to be waning, and long-term efforts are required to cut Japan's chronic dependence on external demand, the Bank of Japan said in a monthly report. Japan's trade surplus in nominal terms is likely to remain high in the near future, the central bank said. Fundamental adjustments will be needed as long as Japan hopes to benefit from a better international allocation of resources and maintain the free trade system, it added. REUTER 
JAPAN LINE SELLING TANKERS AND BULKERS

Major tanker operator, Japan Line Ltd <JLIT.T>, is selling 20 VLCCs and several bulk carriers for scrap or further trading, industry sources said. The tanker disposals include Japan Orchid (231,722 dwt), Japan Lupinus (233,641 dwt), Sovereign (233,313 dwt), Rosebay (274,531 dwt), Saffron (268,038 dwt) and Cattleya (267,807 dwt), all of which have been reported on the London sale and purchase market, they said, but refused to give further details. Japan Line officials declined to comment. REUTER 
JAPAN JANUARY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION REVISED UP

Japan's January seasonally adjusted industrial production index (base 1980) was revised upwards to 122.3 from a preliminary 122.0, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. The revised adjusted January index was down 0.5 pct from December when it rose 3.6 pct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted January index rose 0.5 pct from a year earlier, after a one pct year-on-year December rise. The adjusted producers' shipment index (base 1980) for January was revised upward to 117.7 from a preliminary 117.4. The index was down 0.7 pct from December when it rose three pct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted index was up 1.0 pct from a year earlier after a 1.4 pct year-on-year December rise. The adjusted index of producers' inventories of finished goods (base 1980) for January was unchanged from a preliminary 105.9. The index was down 0.3 pct from December when it rose 1.1 pct. Unadjusted, the revised index was down 2.3 pct from a year earlier after a 2.1 pct year-on-year drop in December. REUTER 
BRAZIL AIRLINE SEEN IN BOEING PLANE LEASE DEAL

State-affiliated financial institutions and commercial banks from eight countries are expected to lend a U.S. Leasing company 400 mln dlrs to finance the purchase from Boeing Co <BA> of six Boeing 767 planes that will be leased to Brazil's Varig airline, banking sources said. The deal is expected to be signed in May, covering a 12 year period, with deliveries starting the same month. Japan's share in the deal is expected to be about 14 mln dlrs, part of which will come from the Export-Import Bank of Japan Ltd, the sources said. Canada, France, Italy, Sweden, the U.K., U.S. And West Germany are also involved, they said. REUTER 
Bank of Japan satisfied with yen around current range, senior bank official says



BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE

The Bank of Japan is satisfied with the yen around its current range, a senior central bank official told reporters. He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Paris last month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around current ranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollar rise. Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currency stability, but it can be useful when coordinated with other policies and with other central banks, he said. The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stability will continue for some time, the senior bank official said, but declined to be more specific. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Friday the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, the official cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, a completely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S. Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by government officials seeking to talk the dollar up or down. The senior bank official said he expects Japan's gross national product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more in the fiscal year beginning in April. That would be little changed from the performance expected this year. Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, but the external sector will have a negative impact on GNP of nearly one percentage point, he said. He said there was virtually no room for further monetary policy action to boost the economy. The economy's performance in the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added. The central bank's monetary policy has already done its part in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said. The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over the last year and a half. Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk of inflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said. "We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it may still be wet," he added. Liquidity among private households and especially the corporate sector has increased substantially, he said. The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stock exchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of funds into the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, may continue, he said. The senior official said the Bank of Japan is hoping Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker will be re-appointed when his current term expires later this year. "He's a great man," the official said, adding that more and more people expect his reappointment. Turning to exchange rates, the official said the substantial drop in the dollar is beginning to have an effect on reducing the imbalance in world trade, even though the impact has taken longer than expected to show through. Even the U.S. Trade position has begun to feel the impact, although so far it has not been very strong, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S DOWA MINING TO PRODUCE GOLD FROM APRIL

<Dowa Mining Co Ltd> said it will start commercial production of gold, copper, lead and zinc from its Nurukawa Mine in northern Japan in April. A company spokesman said the mine's monthly output is expected to consist of 1,300 tonnes of gold ore and 3,700 of black ore, which consists of copper, lead and zinc ores. A company survey shows the gold ore contains up to 13.3 grams of gold per tonne, he said. Proven gold ore reserves amount to 50,000 tonnes while estimated reserves of gold and black ores total one mln tonnes, he added. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN SATISFIED WITH YEN AT CURRENT RANGE

The Bank of Japan is satisfied with the yen around its current range, a senior central bank official told reporters. He said the pledge by major industrial nations in Paris last month to cooperate to hold exchange rates around current ranges applied in both directions, a dollar fall or a dollar rise. Unilateral intervention itself cannot ensure currency stability, but it can be useful when coordinated with other policies and with other central banks, he said. The Bank of Japan is rather confident currency stability will continue for some time, the senior bank official said, but declined to be more specific. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told parliament on Friday the current dollar/yen exchange rate is not necessarily satisfactory for the Japanese economy. Asked what factors might destabilize the markets, the official cited a lessening of market fear about intervention, a completely unexpected change in the economy of Japan, the U.S. Or West Germany, or resumption of comments by government officials seeking to talk the dollar up or down. The senior bank official said he expects Japan's gross national product (GNP) to grow three pct or slightly more in the fiscal year beginning in April. That would be little changed from the performance expected this year. Domestic demand may grow nearly four pct in 1987/88, but the external sector will have a negative impact on GNP of nearly one percentage point, he said. He said there was virtually no room for further monetary policy action to boost the economy. The economy's performance in the future very much depends on fiscal policy, he added. The central bank's monetary policy has already done its part in stimulating the economy, the senior bank official said. The Bank of Japan has cut its discount rate five times over the last year and a half. Although the central bank does not see any imminent risk of inflation, there could be some problems in the future, he said. "We are sitting on a barrel of powder, but fortunately it may still be wet," he added. Liquidity among private households and especially the corporate sector has increased substantially, he said. The liquidity is the reason for the recent boom of stock exchange prices, the bank official said. This inflow of funds into the stock exchange, occurring also in other countries, may continue, he said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS NO INTENTION TO ALTER SALES TAX BILL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he had no intention of modifying at the moment a proposed bill introducing a sales tax. "Parliamentary deliberation must be conducted fully before we see whether to revise it or not," Miyazawa told reporters. He also said he had not heard anything about Deputy Premier Shin Kanemaru suggesting modification of the tax. The Japanese press has reported that Kanemaru proposed yesterday a freeze or a modification of the value-added tax as he saw growing public opposition. Debate on the sales tax has been stalled by a sporadic opposition boycott over their objections to the tax. Miyazawa said he did not expect the bill to be altered even after Parliament completes its deliberations. He also said the Government is undecided on the scale of a proposed provisional budget for fiscal 1987 beginning on April 1. The minister declined to comment on wide-spread press speculation that the stop-gap budget would total more than 1,000 billion yen. The Government is working on a provisional budget as the chances of passing a full one by April 1 are virtually nil as a result of the halt in parliamentary business, officials said. The Government wants to include as many economic stimuli as possible in the provisional budget to boost domestic demand, increase imports and reduce its trade surplus, they said. REUTER 
Japan February wholesale prices fall 0.1 pct (0.6 pct January drop) - official



JAPAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT IN FEBRUARY

Japan's overall wholesale price index (base 1980) fell 0.1 pct in February from a month earlier to 86.4 for the second consecutive month-on-month fall, the Bank of Japan said. Wholesale prices fell 0.6 pct in January from December. The index fell 9.1 pct from a year earlier for the 21st straight year-on-year drop, the central bank said. The reduced month-on-month drop mainly stemmed from the recovery in world crude oil prices, it said. On a customs-cleared basis, crude oil prices rose to around 17 dlrs a barrel in February from about 15 dlrs in January. The average value of the yen against the dollar rose 0.8 pct to 153.50 in February from 154.67 in January and was up 16.8 pct from 184.55 a year earlier, the bank said. The export price index in February fell 0.7 pct from a month earlier reflecting price cuts in export products like cars and precision instruments due to severe foreign competition. The index was down 7.1 pct from a year earlier. The import price index rose 1.1 pct from a month earlier to 57.4 for the sixth successive month-on-month gain mainly due to the continued strength of world crude oil prices. But the index was down 29 pct from a year earlier. The domestic price index fell 0.1 pct to 91.9 in February, its 24th straight monthly drop, mainly reflecting falls in prices of home appliances such as colour televisions due to severe sales competition at home. Lower edible oil prices added to the decline. The index was down 6.7 pct from a year earlier. The domestic index marked its largest year-on-year drop of 7.1 pct in January since the central bank started compiling such statistics in 1960 under its current system. Wholesale prices are likely to turn upward in March as higher world crude oil and raw material prices are expected, the bank said. REUTER 
TOYOTA SEEN GETTING MANILA APPROVAL FOR CAR OUTPUT

Toyota Motor Corp <TOYO.T> of Japan is expected to get approval from a Philippine government agency to produce cars and other items here, government sources said. This follows the company's proposal to invest about 400 mln pesos and generate about 100 mln dlrs in export earnings over five years. The sources said Toyota is likely to be brought into the government-backed Progressive Car Manufacturing Program (PCMP), which since the 1970s has controlled the number of car makers. The PCMP is administered by the Board of Investments (BOI), which screens investments by foreigners and locals. The sources said Toyota had also applied to produce wiring harness, hardboard and ferro-silicone for local and export markets. It has not yet said what kind of cars it will make. The sources did not say when BOI would announce its decision on the Toyota application. In 1984 Toyota severed its ties with <Delta Motor Corp>, its local partner for more than 20 years, because the latter was suffering financial difficulties. The state-owned Philippine National Bank later foreclosed on Delta's assets and the sources said Toyota is now negotiating to buy these. The government sources also said Toyota was in the final stages of negotiations with a new local partner. Toyota would be the third participant in the PCMP, joining <Pilipinas Nissan Inc> and <Philippine Automotive Manufacturing Corp>, formerly Canlubang Automotive Resources Corp. Two U.S. Car firms, General Motors Corp <GM.N> and Ford Motor Co <F.N>, withdrew from the local car market shortly after the country was hit by a financial crisis in 1983. REUTER 
JAPAN TO RELEASE GNP FIGURES LATER TODAY

The Economic Planning Agency will announce gross national product (GNP) figures for the October/December quarter today at 1700 hrs local time (0800 gmt), Agency officials told Reuters. In the July/September quarter, GNP rose 0.6 pct from the previous three months. REUTER 
KOBE RUBBER EXCHANGE TO EXTEND TRADING HOURS

The Kobe Rubber Exchange said it will extend its trading hours from May 1 to enable more operators to use the exchange. Subject to Ministry of International Trade and Industry approval, the Exchange will add a sixth session starting at 1700 local time, and will close the account for trading at the new session the following day before the opening call starts at 0930 local time, an Exchange official said. Trading on the Singapore rubber market, a major producer price indicator for Japanese end-users, is usually active after the end of the current final session here. The introduction of the new session will enable participants to trade overnight after taking account of Singapore rubber prices, because brokers and members who are designated by the Kobe Exchange are allowed to add the volume traded overnight to the new final session before the opening session starts next day, the official said. But because the Kobe Exchange uses the auction system which sets a fixed price at each session, the price of contracts traded overnight should be a fixed price settled at the sixth session, he added. Industry sources said they expected the Ministry to approve the plan because it has encouraged the Japanese futures industry to expand and internationalise. The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry, TOCOM, which also trades rubber futures in Japan, said it has no plans to introduce an extra session. TOCOM also has five rubber trading sessions a day. Four sessions start 15 minutes later than Kobe Exchange sessions, but both Exchanges' final sessions start at the same time. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK MARKET AVERAGE RISES 99.36 TO RECORD CLOSING HIGH OF 21,514.73



JAPAN M-2 PLUS CD MONEY SUPPLY ROSE 8.8 PCT IN YEAR TO FEBRUARY (JAN 8.6) - OFFICIAL



JAPAN FEBRUARY MONEY SUPPLY RISES 8.8 PCT

Japan's broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificate of deposits (CDs) rose a preliminary 8.8 pct in February from a year earlier, compared with an 8.6 pct rise in January, the Bank of Japan said. The seasonally adjusted February average of M-2 plus CDs supply rose 0.8 pct from January, it said. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs stood at an average 336,000 billion yen in February compared with 337,100 billion yen in January. REUTER 
Japan October/December GNP up 0.8 pct (July/Sept revised 0.7 rise) - official



Japan GNP rises 2.5 pct in calendar 1986 (4.7 pct in 1985) - official



JAPAN OCTOBER/DECEMBER GNP RISES 0.8 PCT

Japan's gross national product (GNP) rose a real 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter after an upwardly revised 0.7 pct increase the previous three months, the Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said. The rise in the July/September quarter had originally been put at 0.6 pct. The annualized growth rate accelerated to 3.2 pct in October/December from 3.0 pct in July/September. In the 1986 calendar year, GNP rose 2.5 pct, after a 4.7 pct increase in 1985. Last year's performance was the worst since 1974, when GNP fell 1.4 pct. Agency officials blamed the strong yen for depressing exports and manufacturing industry. In nominal terms, GNP rose 0.5 pct in the October/December quarter, reflecting stable prices, after a one pct increase in the previous three months, the Agency said. Domestic real demand increased 0.6 pct in October/December, after a one pct rise the previous quarter. Domestic demand contributed 0.5 percentage point to real GNP growth in October/December, while foreign trade added 0.2. The figures do not tally exactly due to rounding. In July/September, domestic demand contributed one percentage point to GNP growth while foreign trade knocked off 0.3 point. Of the 0.2 point contribution of foreign trade to GNP last quarter, falling exports knocked off 0.2 while falling imports contributed 0.4 point. Total export volume fell 1.2 pct quarter on quarter in October/December. Imports also fell, by 2.9 pct. Of the 0.5 point contribution of domestic demand to October/December GNP growth, the private sector accounted for 0.4 point and the public sector, 0.2. The private sector contribution included 0.3 point for housebuilding, 0.4 for corporate capital outlays and 0.1 for stockbuilding. Consumer spending had a 0.4 negative impact. REUTER 
JAPAN OFFICIALS SEE DIFFICULTY HITTING GNP TARGET

The government will find it very difficult to achieve its new gross national product (GNP) forecast of three pct growth in the fiscal year ending March 31, Economic Planning Agency officials said. They made the comment to reporters after news that GNP rose 0.8 pct in the October/December quarter, after a 0.7 pct increase the previous three months. For Japan to achieve three pct growth in 1986/87, GNP in the January/March period would have to grow 2.6 pct from October/December, the officials said. The government lowered its GNP forecast for 1986/87 from four pct last December. REUTER 
S.KOREA SAYS JAPAN COMPLAINS TO GATT ON TRADE PLAN

Japan has complained to the secretariat of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) that South Korea's five-year plan to cut its trade deficit with Japan breaks GATT rules, Trade Ministry officials here said. They said Japan submitted a report earlier this month alleging South Korea's plan to import less from Japan and more from the U.S. And elsewhere was tantamount to creating non-tariff trade barriers. South Korea unveiled the plan in November. It said it hoped to narrow its trade deficit with Japan to two billion dlrs by 1991. South Korea's trade deficit with Japan was a record 5.45 billion dlrs in 1986, and rose to 752 mln dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from 727 mln in the same 1986 period. The plan envisages giving incentives to importers not to import Japanese goods, and to exporters to sell more to Japan. The officials said they believed the Japanese action, one step short of filing a suit, was designed to bring South Korea to the negotiating table and stop the plan. The Seoul government wants Tokyo to ease various import restrictions and simplify customs inspections for South Korean goods to help reduce the trade deficit. REUTER 
JAPAN SEEN REDUCING BEEF, PORK INTERVENTION PRICES

The Agriculture Ministry is expected to reduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in 1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not been set yet, industry sources said. Production prices, the basis for setting intervention prices, have been falling because of declining compound feed prices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said. Last November an advisory panel urged the government to work on reducing officially set high farm product prices to levels closer to international values, the sources added. In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisation zone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers. The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-government Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stock operation in the wholesale market. The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will be set by the end of March after an advisory panel to the Agriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting on March 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is 1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said. The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from dairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is 1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540 yen per kilo and the ceiling 760. They said the domestic beef intervention price influences imported beef selling prices on the domestic market. Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-government body imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers or processors in line with the standard price of other beef categories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beef prices, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS RISE IN FEBRUARY

New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in February rose to six vessels totalling 329,999 gross tons from three ships of 79,499 tons in January, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. This compared with six ships of 125,150 gross tons a year earlier, an association official said. The backlog of orders at end-February was 157 ships of 4.41 mln gross tons against 161 ships of 4.39 mln a month earlier and 265 vessels of 6.81 mln a year earlier, an association official said. REUTER 
DOLLAR SEEN FALLING UNLESS JAPAN SPURS ECONOMY

Underlying dollar sentiment is bearish, and operators may push the currency to a new low unless Japan takes steps to stimulate its economy as pledged in the Paris accord, foreign exchange analysts polled by Reuters said here. "The dollar is expected to try its psychological barrier of 150.00 yen and to fall even below that level," a senior dealer at one leading bank said. The dollar has eased this week, but remains stable at around 151.50 yen. Six major industrial countries agreed at a meeting in Paris in February to foster currency stability. Some dealers said the dollar may decline in the long term, but a drastic fall is unlikely because of U.S. Fears of renewed inflation and fears of reduced Japanese purchases of U.S. Treasury securities, needed to finance the U.S. Deficit. Dealers generally doubted whether any economic package Japan could adopt soon would be effective enough to reduce its trade surplus significantly, and said such measures would probably invite further U.S. Steps to weaken the dollar. Under the Paris accord, Tokyo promised a package of measures after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed to boost domestic demand, increase imports and cut its trade surplus. But debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of Parliamentary business over the proposed imposition of a five pct sales tax, and the government has only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, the dealers said. If no such steps are taken, protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress will grow, putting greater downward pressure on the dollar, they said. The factors affecting the U.S. Currency have not changed since before the Paris accord, they added. "Underlying sentiment for the dollar remains bearish due to a still-sluggish U.S. Economic outlook, the international debt crisis triggered by Brazil's unilateral suspension of interest payments on its foreign debts and the reduced clout of the Reagan administration as a result of the Iran/Contra arms scandal," said a senior dealer at a leading trust bank. "There is a possibility that the dollar may decline to around 140.00 yen by the end of this year," said Chemical Bank Tokyo branch vice president Yukuo Takahashi. But operators find it hard to push the dollar either way for fear of possible concerted central bank intervention. Dealers said there were widespread rumours that the U.S. Federal Reserve telephoned some banks in New York to ask for quotes last Wednesday, and even intervened to sell the dollar when it rose to 1.87 marks. The Bank of England also apparently sold sterling in London when it neared 1.60 dlrs on Wednesday, they said. But other dealers said they doubted the efficacy of central bank intervention, saying it may stimulate the dollar's decline because many dealers are likely to await such dollar buying intervention as a chance to sell dollars. However, First National Bank of Chicago Tokyo Branch assistant manager Hiroshi Mochizuki said "The dollar will not show drastic movement at least to the end of March." Other dealers said the U.S. Seems unwilling to see any strong dollar swing until Japanese companies close their books for the fiscal year ending on March 31, because a weak dollar would give Japanese institutional investors paper losses on their foreign holdings, which could make them lose interest in purchases of U.S. Treasury securities. U.S. Monetary officials may refrain from making any comments this month to avoid influencing rates, they said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS NO INTENTION TO ALTER SALES TAX BILL

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he had no intention of modifying at the moment a proposed bill introducing a sales tax. "Parliamentary deliberation must be conducted fully before we see whether to revise it or not," Miyazawa told reporters. He also said he had not heard anything about Deputy Premier Shin Kanemaru suggesting modification of the tax. The Japanese press has reported that Kanemaru proposed yesterday a freeze or a modification of the value-added tax as he saw growing public opposition. Debate on the sales tax has been stalled by a sporadic opposition boycott over their objections to the tax. Miyazawa said he did not expect the bill to be altered even after Parliament completes its deliberations. He also said the Government is undecided on the scale of a proposed provisional budget for fiscal 1987 beginning on April 1. The minister declined to comment on wide-spread press speculation that the stop-gap budget would total more than 1,000 billion yen. Reuter 
IRAN SAID TO ATTACK CYPRIOT TANKER

A Cypriot tanker was set ablaze in the Persian Gulf yesterday after an Iranian gunboat fired missiles at it, shipping sources quoting reports from Japanese tankers said today. No casualties were seen and the tanker Pivot, laden with crude oil, was towed towards Dubai by tugs after they put out the fire, the sources said. Iranian gunboats usually check a ship's nationality and cargo before attacking but the Pivot was hit near Bu Musa island without warning, they added. Reuter 
ECONOMISTS SEE SLUGGISH JAPANESE ECONOMY AHEAD

The Japanese economy will remain sluggish in the months ahead after turning in its worst performance for 12 years in 1986, private economists said. Consumer spending, a main driving force of domestic demand, was likely to remain lacklustre although brisk housing and business investment would help sustain the economy this year, the economists said. They said they were shocked by an Economic Planning Agency report today that private spending fell 0.7 pct in the Oct/Dec quarter for the first time in 12 years. The report said Japan's gross national product rose a real 0.8 pct in Oct/Dec after a revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous quarter. It said GNP growth for 1986 was a real 2.5 pct, down from 4.7 pct in 1985. Agency officials said this was the worst performance since 1974 when GNP contracted 1.4 pct in the wake of the first oil crisis. They expressed concern about the 0.7 pct decline in consumer spending in the final quarter of 1986 but said it was only temporary as exceptionally warm winter weather had depressed retail sales. But most private economists disagreed and said consumers were likely to remain pessimistic in coming months as they saw their real income level off. "Sure, consumers may have spent less on winter clothes or heating apparatus because of the warm winter this year, but they have done so because they have become even more uneasy about their future pay rises," said Shoji Saito, general manager of Mitsui Bank's economic research division. He said the outlook for pay increases was gloomy because of falling employment in many industries, particularly those hit hard by the yen's rise. Masao Suzaki, senior economist at the Bank of Tokyo, said weakened consumer confidence was the most worrying factor. Without brisk consumer spending, Japan can hardly achieve domestically generated economic growth as the government has put a lid on fiscal measures, he said. Other economists said the 0.8 pct growth registered in Oct/Dec may have been inflated by special factors, including exceptionally heavy spending in the public sector. Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute, said the 14.4 pct increase in public sector spending in Oct/Dec resulted from an issue of gold coins. "This is just a one-shot spending and we can't expect that high level of public-sector consumption in the following quarter," Takahashi said. Agency officials said public spending would have risen 1.1 pct in Oct/Dec without the issue, which marked 60 years of Emperor Hirohito's reign. Takahashi said the economy might contract in the current quarter given the lack of additional significant government spending and sluggish consumer spending. Saito said the most effective government action would be income tax cuts and the postponement beyond next January of a proposed controversial sales tax. REUTER 
JAPAN ALERTS GATT TO SOUTH KOREA IMPORT PLAN

Japan told the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that South Korea's five-year import diversification plan violated the spirit of the world trade governing body, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. The notification came in Japan's answer to a recent GATT questionnaire on unfair trade practices, the spokesman said. In the five-year plan, which starts this year, South Korea aims to reduce its dependency on Japan as a source of imported goods and to increase imports from the U.S. And Europe. Japan's move came after several unsuccessful bilateral negotiations on the plan, the spokesman said. "The notification does not represent anything resembling a formal complaint, nor is it intended to pressure South Korea. It is a routine procedure followed by all other GATT member states." Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE IS "QUITE CONFIDENT" JAPAN WILL STIMULATE ITS ECONOMY



YEN USURPS GODZILLA AS JAPAN'S FAVOURITE HORROR

"Endaka," the strong yen, has usurped "Godzilla Versus the Sea Monster" as Japan's favourite horror story. The yen's 40 pct surge against the dollar over the last two years has frightened foreigners with tales of the 40 dlr melon, the 120 dlr taxi ride from the airport and rents of 15,000 dlrs a month. But "endaka," like many Japanese products, is for foreign consumption, locals and long-time foreign residents said. "It's not really that expensive. I don't pay attention to the cost of living," said Cheryl Richmond, a 25-year-old Canadian teacher of English in Tokyo. Richmond said she earns 1,635 dlrs a month by "chatting" 40 hours a week in English to Japanese who hope to learn the language. For 326 dlrs a month she rents a sunny, quiet two-room flat some 20 minutes by train from Shinjuku, one of Tokyo's prime business and entertainment districts, and has managed to send home an average of 320 dlrs a month. She spends less than 6.50 dlrs a day on food despite eating out once a day. "For lunch I buy the teishoku (daily special) which comes with soba (buckwheat noodles) or pork cutlet, pickles, miso soup, rice and tea," although she takes only coffee for breakfast and a sandwich for dinner. No one argues that Tokyo is cheap, but long-time residents see no need to spend the 2,000 to 15,000 dlrs a month spent by foreign firms to house executives in Western-style homes. The companies feel otherwise. They say they must pay the price to bring over the best people needed to back up their push into Japan's increasingly lucrative markets. "You can't expect people to move from New York or Sydney and trade down. It's not reasonable," said a spokesman for International Business Machines Corp (IBM), which supports Western lifestyles for more than 350 foreigners in Tokyo. Tokyo is the world's most expensive city for business travellers, a survey issued this month by Employment Conditions Abroad said. It found that businessmen visiting Tokyo spend on average more than 300 dlrs a day. While the businessmen have little choice but to come here, many tourists, especially those from Europe, are opting to visit sunnier and cheaper climes in Southeast Asia. The Japan Tourist Bureau estimates "endaka" caused an 11.5 pct drop in the number of foreign visitors to Japan last year. Those who came tried to cut back on expenses, chiefly by curtailing shopping, it said. To help combat "endaka" and the slump in tourism, the Tourist Bureau prepared a pamphlet, "Economical Travel in Japan." It gives budget-saving tips on finding medium-priced business hotels and Japanese-style inns, cheap sushi and public baths while getting a "revealing glimpse of Japanese in their daily lives." Residents of Okubo House, a transit hotel in Tokyo's Shin-Okubo love hotel district, offer even more savvy advice. For 9.80 dlrs a night, Scott Perry, a 23-year-old budding English teacher from New Zealand, shares an unheated, berth-sized twin-room in the Japanese "flop house." Perry has budgeted 26 to 33 dlrs a day while he looks for work. "Normally I eat 'teishoku' for 400 yen but sometimes I'll splurge at Shakey's where for 550 yen you can eat unlimited pizza for at least two hours." Still, there are the extras that dent the budget. "I had to spend 600 yen today to dry-clean my suit coat," he said. REUTER 
GLOBAL TRADING IN YEN BOND FUTURES EXPECTED SOON

Global trading of yen bond futures is just around the corner and they are expected to be listed soon on the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) and the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT), bond managers said. "Internationalisation of the yen through expansion of overseas portfolios in yen assets is the key to the success of global trading of yen bond futures," said Katsuyuki Okayasu, general manager of Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd's bond division. "But Tokyo-based orders are necessary for a primary stimulus for the LIFFE yen bond futures market," said Tetsuya Dezuka, deputy general manager of the money market section of New Japan Securities Co Ltd, one of the most active yen bond brokers in London. Healthy growth of yen bond futures markets depends basically on substantial liquidity in cash yen bond markets overseas and on the yen becoming attractive to traders there, dealers said. Outstanding yen cash bonds worldwide stand at around 140,000 billion yen, with most held in Japan, they said. An agreement between CBOT and LIFFE in early February on mutual settlements is expected to link U.S. Treasury bond futures trading in London and Chicago, enabling a continuous 12-hour session, bond managers here said, adding the move was made with yen bond futures trading in mind. LIFFE is preparing for an early listing of yen bond futures after receiving approval from Japan's Finance Ministry last December. But futures markets will never take root unless they are backed by substantial liquidity in cash bond markets, dealers said. Daily transactions in the London yen cash bond market now stand at 200 to 300 billion yen, but the extent of investor- linked transactions is unknown, securities bond managers said. "Japanese corporations have been actively setting up their financing companies in London, suggesting they increasingly are engaging in, not only fund raising, but management there," Dezuka said. The steep increase in the number of branches of Japanese securities houses in London and the growing numbers of U.S. And U.K. Brokers coming to Tokyo has helped the London market's growth, dealers said. Internationalisation of the yen is also likely to be promoted by yen bond trading in Chicago and New York later this year, securities managers said. The recent removal of a key regulatory obstacle by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will allow the CBOT to apply to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a yen bond futures contract, they said. The ruling removed a regulation which prohibited trading futures of designated foreign government debt securities not located in the issuing country. Fundamental Brokers Inc, a major U.S. Brokers' broker, has decided to launch yen bond broking on its display system in New York as early as April. CBOT's start of an evening session, planned for the end of April, will also multiply yen bond futures trading, a Nomura Securities Co Ltd bond manager said. But there are still obstacles to trading on the London market. "Problems concerning cash bond delivery and clearing are major obstacles for an early launching at LIFFE," said Koki Chiyojima, deputy general manager of Nikko Securities Co Ltd's bond administration division. Nikko Securities Co Ltd, one of the big four Japanese securities houses, is responsible for corresponding with LIFFE on these matters. Japan's Finance Ministry will start issuing bonds with coupon payment of either March and September, or June and December from April 1, matching futures delivery months. The ministry now pays coupons in January, June, July and December. When delivery months and coupon payments do not match, a 20 pct withholding tax is imposed on interest earned by non-resident bond holders, a deterrent to LIFFE, securities managers said. LIFFE is likely to wait until the outstanding amount of bonds with matching months increases to over several billion yen, bond managers said. These bonds will be used for deliveries, as they are expected to be the cheapest deliverable issues due to low interest rates, they said. Market participants here expect a clearing organisation to be set up by the time they have substantial deliverable cash issues, making overseas listings probable in the latter half of 1987. REUTER 
ROTTERDAM SIGNS COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH TOKYO

The city of Rotterdam today signed an agreement in principle to cooperate with the AOMI Cargo Distribution Centre in Tokyo. Acting Mayor Roel den Dunnen said that cooperation between private and public entities in the Tokyo and Rotterdam area, and a fruitful exchange of information have a favourable influence on the flow of goods and services between the two countries. The AOMI Cargo Distribution Center, which will start operating in October this year, signed a similar agreement with Rotterdam's twinned-port of Seattle last September. Reuter 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - JAPAN SHIPBUILDERS RECOVERY

Japan's ailing shipbuilding industry plans to refloat itself in a few years from the twin rocks of recession and a strong yen through capacity and workforce cuts and greater use of computers, industry sources told Reuters. The salvage measures, which include a government-sponsored rationalisation program, are aimed at clawing back some of the market which Japan, the world leader, has lost to South Korea through currency and labour cost disadvantages, they said. The sources said South Korea's yards are now some 35 pct more competitive than Japan's due to such factors. The government plans to help the industry shed 20 pct of current capacity within two years through mergers and regrouping under legislation put before Parliament this month and likely to be approved by May or June, the sources said. They said from September a semi-government body will assure repayment of about 50 billion yen in liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess capacity, and another 30 billion for buying unneeded land and equipment. Last Friday, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan applied to the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash tonnage built to about half of total capacity for a year from April 1. The commission has held several hearings with the industry and approval should be given this month, the sources said. A clampdown on output over one or two years combined with a planned cost-cutting and streamlining program and state support should help Japanese yards recover their international competitiveness, they said. Under the cartel proposals, 33 yards each capable of building ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes would build a maximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes (CGRT) in 1987/88. This is about half of total capacity. This will ease the cut-throat competition which forced most yards to sign orders below cost, the sources said. The industry is likely to seek to renew the cartel for 1988/89 as the Transport Ministry sees new orders falling to 3.1 mln CGRT in 1988/89 from 3.3 mln in 1987/88, they said. The rationalisation program includes a cut of 20,000 to 30,000 of the estimated 100,000 workers in the industry between 1986 and 1989. Japanese yards topped world order books at end-December, followed by South Korea and Taiwan, according to Lloyd's Register of Shipping. However, falling orders and declining international competitiveness due to the strong yen led to heavy losses in the industry, the sources said. Four of Japan's six major heavy machinery and shipbuilding companies reported current deficits in the first half of the year to March 31 and five of them are expected to report current deficits for the whole of 1986/7, they said. The shipbuilding companies' streamlining program will raise productivity to compete with South Korean yards which have also been hard hit by declining orders and low ship prices in recnt years, the sources said. In Japan, no single yard leads the industry, resulting in fierce competition and slow progress in reducing capacity. The two largest firms -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> and Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries Co Ltd <JIMA.T> -- account for only 30 pct of ships built, the sources said. "World shipowners hope Japanese yards can manage to ride out the recession as their technology is the best in the world," said an official at a major Japanese shipping company. The Japanese merchant fleet, the largest after Liberia's, has no intention of shifting to other countries to buy ships, and this will encourage Japanese yards, the sources said. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - ASIAN PROPERTY MARKET

Property looks set to continue to provide good returns on investment in most major cities in Asia and Australia this year. A Reuter poll of property analysts, bankers and economists around the region shows better returns are often more likely to come from buying and selling real estate than from rental income. In central Tokyo, property analysts project commercial land prices will rise this year by 10 to 20 pct after last year's 53.8 pct jump. The main draw for local and foreign investors in Japan is Tokyo, where the top price paid for a central commercial property last year was 169,000 dlrs a square meter. A building in land-poor Singapore recently sold for 3,300 dlrs a meter. But the analysts said Tokyo rents could level off as supply increases slightly and the strong yen puts prices out of reach of foreign investors. Japanese investors, spurred by the yen's rise, are spending record sums on property abroad, partly elsewhere in Asia, but in particular in the U.S., Where Japanese investment could double this year to 10 billion dlrs, the analysts said. The analysts forecast that Hong Kong property prices will rise steadily over the next few years, although a surge in construction will limit increases in some areas. Property sales have become increasingly popular because in some sectors of the market real estate prices, as in several cities in the region, have already outpaced rent yields. "We still see prices creeping up steadily and I don't see why the trend should not continue over the next few months," said Gareth Williams, a partner of land agent Vigers Hong Kong. But he warned investors to bear in mind the political risk linked to the return of the colony to China in 1997. In several other countries, analysts predicted at least some rise in property values, which in one or two cases, such as Thailand, could help spark a construction boom. Bankers and economists in Bangkok said they expect at least seven pct growth this year in private sector construction as a result of government assistance, low mortgage rates and a generally bullish economic outlook. Increased confidence in the economy has also improved the outlook for property in Manila after a three-year slump, one Philippine developer said. Taiwan's property market is also set to turn around after five years in the doldrums, according to property developers in Taipei. They, like counterparts in many of the region's capitals, cited low interest rates as a major factor. One leading broker said the property market had become an attractive investment in Taiwan, noting property development yields of up to 15 pct. Jakarta too has plenty of new office towers. Construction has helped cut rents to half the levels of the early 1980s, though foreigners usually have to rent because of limits on property ownership, as in many parts of Asia. In contrast, Australia's easing of rules on foreign investment in property, combined with financial deregulation and a weaker dollar, has helped spark overseas interest in the market, analysts said. But this has not always meant sales. "What we have seen is an increase in inquiries, particularly from Japan, but this has yet to show itself in many new deals being done," said Allan Farrar, executive director (real estate) of Elders IXL Ltd's pastoral group. Yields on prime Sydney office buildings average 6.5 pct, and one analyst forecast a 20 pct jump in rents this year after 15 pct rises in each of the past two years. REUTER... 
JAPAN MARCH INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS FALLS

Japan's customs-cleared trade surplus fell to 1.89 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of March from a 1.91 billion surplus a year earlier, the Ministry of Finance said. The March interim surplus compared with a 1.70 billion dlr surplus in the same February period. FOB exports in the first 10 days of March rose 5.8 pct from a year earlier to 5.50 billion dlrs and CIF imports rose 9.7 pct to 3.61 billion. The average yen/dollar rate used for the statistics was 153.67 yen against 181.23 a year earlier. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD RENEWS JAPAN SUPPLY PACT

The Australian Wheat Board (AWB) expects to sell about 900,000 tonnes of wheat to the Japanese Food Agency this year after renewing its annual supply agreement, AWB general manager Ron Paice said. Under the agreement, the AWB makes the wheat available and sells into the Food Agency's regular tenders, he said in a statement. He noted that the Board has sold more than three mln tonnes to Japan in the past three years. REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA'S LUCKY-GOLDSTAR TO MAKE CANON CAMERAS

<Goldstar Precision Co Ltd>, part of South Korea's <Lucky-Goldstar Group>, agreed with Japan's Canon Inc <CANN.T> to make cameras using Canon technology, a Goldstar spokesman told reporters. He told reporters Goldstar will invest 25 billion won over the next five years and would pay Canon three pct of total sales, which are targetted at eight billion won this year, 25 to 30 billion next year and 76 billion in 1991, as royalties. Most of Goldstar's output, due to start in July, will be sold in South Korea, he said. However, the Goldstar spokesman said, Canon has agreed in principle to buy an unspecified number of cameras for resale in Japan under its own name, he said, without providing further details. In Tokyo, a Canon spokesman said that under the agreement Canon would sell facilities, components and technology worth 1.5 billion yen to Goldstar in calendar 1987 and 3.5 billion in 1988, he said. He said Goldstar plans to make 35-mm single-lens reflex cameras and 35-mm compact cameras at an annual rate of 70,000 in 1987 and 200,000 in 1988. The camera market in South Korea is expected to expand rapidly ahead of the 1988 Olympic Games scheduled to be held there, the Canon spokesman said. South Korean camera demand rose to 700,000 in 1986 from 640,000 in 1985. Cameras made with foreign assistance accounted for 65 pct of cameras sold in South Korea, he said. Minolta Camera Co Ltd <MNLT.T>, <Asahi Optical Co Ltd> and Nippon Kogaku KK <GAKU.T> already assemble 35-mm cameras with South Korean partners. REUTER 
NORTH KOREA TO RESURRECT GOLD MINE TO REPAY DEBT

Pyongyang and a group of Tokyo-based North Korean businessmen plan to resurrect a North Korean goldmine and boost annual output to almost one tonne within two years from 600 pounds at present, said Li Sangsu, a spokesman for <Unzan Mine Development Co>, the venture partner. Work will begin on April 3 and the company aims to increase output to 10 tonnes within a decade to pay off Pyongyang's 70 billion yen debt to 30 Japanese companies, Li added. "We expect this mine to be worth about 2,000 billion yen in gold deposits," he said. The mine, started in 1896 by a U.S. Company, is one of six or seven virtually untapped mines in the Unzan area, 94 miles north of Pyongyang, Li said. Li said modern equipment and advanced technology would increase yields. "Up to now, the mining was done with antiquated methods and basic equipment." The gold mine scheme is the latest in a series of moves by North Korea to clear its debts to Japanese creditors. Earlier this year, Pyongyang tried and failed to pay off part of its debt with several tonnes of fish. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMIC PACKAGE AFTER BUDGET - MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japan plans to announce a package of economic measures immediately after the 1987/88 budget passes Parliament. The passage of the full budget is expected after May 20 as the government has decided to compile a 50-day stop-gap budget for the year starting April 1. An opposition boycott over a proposed sales tax has disrupted parliamentary business. Miyazawa told a press conference Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is unlikely to take the package to Washington. Nakasone hopes to meet President Reagan in late April or early May to prepare for the Venice economic summit in June. Asked if he planned to visit the U.S. To attend monetary conferences including International Monetary Fund meetings in early April, Miyazawa said he will make a decision carefully on the matter, taking into account parliament debate. The package is likely to include a record amount of public works spending in the first 1987/88 half, Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said the provisional budget will total about 8,800 billion yen and incorporate a little more than 1,800 billion for public works. Japan expects the stop-gap budget to help spur the economy, Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said the Government and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party will seek the passage of the bills related to the controversial sales tax without any revision. Japanese press reports had previously interpretated remarks by a top government official as indicating a revision of the tax but the official did not mean that, Miyazawa said. REUTER 
JAPAN SLIGHTLY REDUCES SUGAR CONSUMPTION ESTIMATE

The Agriculture Ministry said it revised its April-June sugar consumption estimate down to 623,300 tonnes on a refined basis, from 637,800 estimated at the end of December. It said the estimate for domestically produced sugar supply for the same period was revised to 190,400 tonnes from the earlier estimate of 195,100 tonnes, while imports were revised to 402,000 tonnes from the earlier 435,800 tonnes. It did not revise its sugar consumption estimate of 2.53 mln tonnes for the 1986/87 sugar year ending September 30. The ministry said the estimate for the 1986/87 year's supply of domestically produced sugar was revised to 881,000 tonnes, from the earlier estimate of 863,000. The estimate for 1986/87 imports was revised to 1.642 mln tonnes, from an earlier 1.645 mln tonnes. REUTER 
FORMER GOLD FIRM EXECUTIVES ARRESTED IN JAPAN

The public prosecutors and police here arrested five former senior executives of a bankrupt gold deposit business group for defrauding about 450 clients of about 1.5 billion yen for gold bars which were never delivered, police said. The case involving the Toyota Shoji Company was highlighted when its 32-year-old Chairman Kazuo Nagano was stabbed to death here in public view in June, 1985. Television crews which had been waiting outside Nagano's home filmed two men smashing their way into the home and later emerging with a bloodstained bayonet. The company, established here in 1981, undertook to hold gold on deposit for investors. It grew into a nationwide business operation with 87 branch offices and 7,000 employees at its peak in early 1985. Toyota Shoji's business group collected an estimated 200 billion yen from about 30,000 clients, many of them pensioners and housewives, before the firm went bankrupt in July, 1985, according to lawyers. Of them, some 18,000 clients claimed they could get back neither gold or money, suffering an aggregate loss of 150 billion yen, local press reports said. Police said the five arrested on charge of fraud today included Hiroshi Ishikawa, 47, former Toyota Shoji president, and a sixth former executive was placed on a wanted list. They were suspected of having collaborated with the late Nagano in swindling about 1.5 billion yen from about 450 people in Osaka and nearby Kobe during a six month period just before the firm's bankruptcy, they said. Today's arrest came after narly two years of joint investigation by the public prosecutors and police, who had questioned about 3,000 of the firm's former employees, police sources said. REUTER 
JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON

Japan's long-term banks will soon cut their prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3 percentage point in response to falling secondary market yields on their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said. The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentage point above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued by the long-term banks every month. The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strong end-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yen interest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime rate has been in effect since February 28. REUTER 
NAKASONE DEFENDS SALES TAX AS CAMPAIGNING BEGINS

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone defended his tax reform plans from fierce opposition, even within his own party, as campaigning for local elections began. "Our plan to reform the nation's tax system is by no means wrong. Unless we reform the system now, Japan is bound to decay, perhaps within the next 10 years," Nakasone told supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). The April 12 and 26 elections will be the first nationwide vote since the LDP's general election victory last July. Opposition parties have shown rare unity in joining to fight a proposed five pct sales tax, one of the main planks in the tax reform package, and are now challenging the LDP-dominated local governments and assemblies. In Tokyo, incumbent Governor Shunichi Suzuki backed by the LDP and two centrist parties has said he cannot support the sales tax as it stands. A survey by the National Broadcasting Corporation just over three weeks ago showed 70 pct of those polled said they would take the tax, which Nakasone proposes to implement next January, into consideration when they vote. Takako Doi, Chairwoman of the Japan Socialist Party, said in a speech in central Tokyo where shop-owners are opposing the tax "The elections are a plebiscite against the sales tax. Your vote is a vote to force (Nakasone) to retract (it)." The LDP is putting up its own candidates only in Iwate and western Shimane but it is supporting independents jointly with other parties in other prefectures. A close aide to Nakasone, who asked not to be identified, said he sees the sales tax having little impact on the local elections since almost all candidates, irrespective of party affiliation, are opposing it in prefectural assembly polls. REUTER 
JAPANESE COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT FALLS IN JANUARY

Japanese compound feed output fell to 2.06 mln tonnes in January from 2.57 mln in December, against 2.04 mln a year earlier, Agriculture Ministry statistics show. January sales totalled 2.07 mln tonnes against 2.59 mln in December and 2.04 mln a year earlier, while end-month stocks were 233,003 tonnes against 230,764 and 241,567. Base mixes for the January compound feed output included corn, sorghum and soybean meal. Corn use totalled 993,156 tonnes, against 1.20 mln in December and 896,718 a year earlier, and its compounding ratio was 48.1 pct against 46.6 pct and 43.1 pct. Sorghum use totalled 339,013 tonnes in January against 459,067 in December and 412,743 a year earlier, and its compounding ratio was 16.4 pct against 17.8 pct and 19.8 pct, the ministry's figures shows. Soybean meal use amounted to 202,546 tonnes against 253,498 and 213,287 and its compounding ratio was 9.8 pct against 9.8 pct and 10.2 pct. REUTER 
JAPAN SAYS IT TRYING TO EXPAND DOMESTIC DEMAND

Japan has assured a meeting of trade ministers it is making every effort to expand domestic demand and restructure its economy. Japanese trade representative Tsomu Hata told an informal General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) meeting that, in addition to demand boosting measures adopted last September, a comprehensive economic program will be prepared after the 1987/88 budget is approved. Hata, speaking at the first session of the two-day meeting, said agriculture is no exception to the goal of restructuring the economy, but did not elaborate. Hata said protectionist pressures in the international economy are as strong as ever, reflecting financial deficits, payment imbalances and serious unemployment in many countries. Despite great potential, developing economies are still confronted by grave difficulties, particularly debt, he added. The basis for the talks is the GATT ministerial declaration last September in Punta del Este, Uruguay, and the subsequent trade negotiating plan agreed in Geneva. "It is essential that we first reaffirm here our commitment to implementing that plan as scheduled," Hata said. Hata added it is not constructive to speed up negotiations in some areas at the expense of others. In order to rebuild the free trade system, it is important for each participant to have domestic policies that will serve this end. As part of its contribution, Japan plans in April to fundamentally improve its generalised system of preferences for industrial and mining products to make Japan's domestic market more open to developing countries, he said. REUTER 
MARUBENI WINS 30 MLN DLR CHINESE CHICKEN CONTRACT

Marubeni Corp <MART.T> said it won a 30 mln dlr contract from China to set up a broiler raising and slaughtering plant in Tianjin under a countertrade accord in which payment will be made partly by output from the plant. The plant, which will be completed by end-1988, will have a capacity of five mln broilers a year, most of which will go to China's domestic market, a company spokesman said without giving further details. The spokesman said Marubeni plans to increase its countertrade with China by helping China set up farm product processing plants and improving its food distribution system. Marubeni will also help China develop export markets for farm products, he said. The company wants to increase its food trade with China to around 200 mln dlrs a year within a few years from 70 mln now, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMY SEEN GROWING 3.6 PCT IN 1987/88

Japan is expected to post a 3.6 pct rise in real gross national product in 1987/88, higher than the official 3.5 pct target, a private economic institute said. The Research Institute on National Economy said in a report the economy will start picking up in the April-June quarter, partly because of an improvement in earnings performance and capital spending in manufacturing industries. The institute assumed an average exchange rate in the year starting April 1 of 150 yen to the dollar. It predicted the Bank of Japan will not change the official discount rate in the year. The institute forecast that Japan's exports will gradually rise in the year in volume terms as the dollar's fall in the past 18 months is likely to help prop up the U.S. Economy. Japan's trade surplus is expected to narrow slightly to 90.2 billion dlrs in 1987/88 ending March 31 from an estimated 98 billion in the current fiscal year, it said. REUTER 
TOSHIBA SETS UP HONG KONG CIRCUIT DESIGN CENTRE

Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> said it has set up a design centre for large integrated circuits (LSI) in Hong Kong. The centre, located at its wholly-owned Hong Kong subsidiary <Toshiba Electronics Asia Ltd>, will start operations to help create new demand for semi-customized LSI from April 1. Toshiba has nine LSI design centres in the U.S., Europe and Japan. REUETER 
JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME SEEN CUT TO RECORD LOW SOON

Japan's long-term banks will soon cut their prime rate, now at a record low 5.5 pct, by 0.2 or 0.3 percentage point in response to falling secondary market yields on their five-year debentures, long-term bankers said. The long-term prime rate is customarily set 0.9 percentage point above the coupon on five-year bank debentures issued by the long-term banks every month. The latest bank debentures, at 4.6 pct, have met strong end-investor demand on the prospect of further declines in yen interest rates, dealers said. The current 5.5 pct prime rate has been in effect since February 28. REUTER 
NAKASONE DEFENDS SALES TAX AS CAMPAIGNING BEGINS

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone defended his tax reform plans from fierce opposition, even within his own party, as campaigning for local elections began. "Our plan to reform the nation's tax system is by no means wrong. Unless we reform the system now, Japan is bound to decay, perhaps within the next 10 years," Nakasone told supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). The April 12 and 26 elections will be the first nationwide vote since the LDP's general election victory last July. Opposition parties have shown rare unity in joining to fight a proposed five pct sales tax, one of the main planks in the tax reform package, and are now challenging the LDP-dominated local governments and assemblies. In Tokyo, incumbent Governor Shunichi Suzuki backed by the LDP and two centrist parties has said he cannot support the sales tax as it stands. A survey by the National Broadcasting Corporation just over three weeks ago showed 70 pct of those polled said they would take the tax, which Nakasone proposes to implement next January, into consideration when they vote. Takako Doi, Chairwoman of the Japan Socialist Party, said in a speech in central Tokyo where shop-owners are opposing the tax "The elections are a plebiscite against the sales tax. Your vote is a vote to force (Nakasone) to retract (it)." The LDP is putting up its own candidates only in Iwate and western Shimane but it is supporting independents jointly with other parties in other prefectures. A close aide to Nakasone, who asked not to be identified, said he sees the sales tax having little impact on the local elections since almost all candidates, irrespective of party affiliation, are opposing it in prefectural assembly polls. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING

The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollar buying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunch break, dealers said. They said the bank seemed more determined to support the dollar than it did this morning. Several dealers said the central bank intervened this afternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen. One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hour since the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Another said the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 
SONY SETTING UP SECOND AUDIO PLANT IN MALAYSIA

Sony Corp <SNE.T> said it will set up a second wholly-owned subsidiary in Malaysia to make headphones, car stereos, radios and radiocassettes from early 1988. <Sony Electronics (M) Sdn Bhd> in Penang will have initial capital of about 2.5 billion yen, and provide 1,000 jobs. Sales worth 10 billion yen are targetted for the year from April 1, 1988, mainly to the U.S. And Europe. Sony's wholly-owned <Toyo Audio (M) Sdn Bhd> in Penang has made audio products for export to the U.S. And Europe since 1984. Toyo sales were four billion yen in the year to October 31, 1986. REUTER 
SUZUKI MOTOR PLANS HUNGARIAN JOINT CAR VENTURE

Suzuki Motor Co Ltd <SZMT.T> is negotiating a joint venture with Hungary to assemble compact cars there following a request from its government, the first entry by a Japanese car maker into a Communist country, a Suzuki spokesman said. The company, in which General Motors Corp <GM.N> has a 4.9 pct stake, has to set up such projects to avoid cutting component production in Japan. Existing overseas vehicle projects are increasing local content and so using fewer Japanese parts, the spokesman said. Its Indian joint venture <Maruti Udyog Ltd>, MUL, 26 pct owned by Suzuki, will reduce component imports from Japan as it increases local content to 60 pct from the present 40 pct in 1987, the spokesman said. The yen's continued rise against the dollar and Japan's self-imposed restrictions on exports to the U.S. And Europe were also to blame for cuts in car component manufacture in Japan, he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING

The Bank of Japan stepped up its dollar buying as it re-entered the market after the midday Tokyo lunch break, dealers said. They said the bank seemed more determined to support the dollar than it did this morning. Several dealers said the central bank intervened this afternoon when the dollar stood around 149 yen. One said it purchased 150 to 200 mln dlrs in the half-hour since the market re-opened after its lunchtime closure. Another said the bank still has buying orders in the market. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. REUTER 
DOUBTS ABOUT ACCORD SEEN WEAKENING DOLLAR FURTHER

The dollar is expected to decline further in coming days as scepticism mounts about the effectiveness of last month's Paris accord to stabilise currency exchange rates, senior foreign exchange dealers said. Following its fall today to a record 148.40 yen, dealers said they expect the dollar to establish a new trading range of 147 to 150 yen before the market again tries to push it down. Behind the latest dollar fall lies the belief that last month's accord was no longer enough to stop operators pushing the dollar down, the dealers said. "The recent remark by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the Paris accord did not set any target ranges for major currencies has cast a shadow on the agreement," said Koji Kidokoro, general manager of Mitsui Bank Ltd's treasury division. He said the market interpreted this as indicating the U.S. Would favour a weaker dollar and it had little intention of intervening to support the currency. "This eliminated the widespread market caution against possible joint central bank intervention," Kidokoro said. Dealers said the dollar had gathered renewed downward momentum and that Bank of Japan intervention alone could hardly contain a further slide in the currency. They said the central bank bought between one to 1.5 billion dlrs today, including direct purchases through brokers, and yesterday it might have bought a small amount of dollars through the U.S. Central bank in New York. Most dealers said they doubted the U.S. Federal Reserve would intervene on its own account to support the dollar, but some said this might occur if the dollar fell much below 148 yen. "If the dollar drops to that low level, it could reduce the flow of foreign capital into U.S. Securities, which the Americans don't want," said Haruya Uehara, chief money market manager of Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corp. He said the dollar may return to around 152 yen next month when corporations reduce their dollar sales after they close their books for the 1986/87 business year ending on March 31. But dealers said the longer-term outlook for the dollar remained bearish. This was due to the lacklustre performance of the U.S. Economy, the continuing U.S. Trade deficit and Japanese delays in announcing an economic stimulation package. "The Americans are getting frustrated at Japan's inertia in stimulating its economy," said Hirozumi Tanaka, assistant general manager of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd's international treasury division. In the Paris currency accord Japan promised a package of economic measures, after the fiscal 1987 budget was passed, to boost domestic demand, increase imports, and thus reduce its trade surplus. The package was expected in April, but debate on the budget has been delayed by an opposition boycott of parliamentary business over the proposed introduction of a sales tax. In the circumstances the government had only a slim chance of producing a meaningful economic package in the near future, Dai-Ichi Kangyo's Tanaka said. Dealers said if steps are not taken to stimulate the Japanese economy protectionist sentiment in the U.S. Congress would grow and put more downward pressure on the dollar. REUTER 
MAJOR NATIONS MUST ACT ON CURRENCIES - MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the time has come for major industrialised nations to take action on exchange rates in line with their agreement last month in Paris. In Paris, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to coooperate to hold currency rates around their then current levels. Miyazawa would not say what specific measures major nations would take, but told reporters the measures had been discussed in Paris. The dollar fell to a record low against the yen this morning, piercing the 150 yen barrier. Asked if major nations were now negotiating on what measures to take, Miyazawa said they were not as measures had already been agreed in Paris. REUTER 
JAPAN ECONOMY MAY START BOTTOMING OUT SOON -AGENCY

Japan's economy remains sluggish but is beginning to show signs it may bottom out soon, the Economic Planning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to Cabinet ministers. But a bottoming out of the economy depends largely on the yen's exchange rate trend in the immediate future, Agency officials said. The officials told reporters industrial production, down 0.5 pct in January from December, is likely to turn positive in February and to rise thereafter, raising hopes for a brighter economic outlook. The Agency predicted industrial production will grow 2.5 pct in the current January/March quarter after falling 0.7 pct in the previous quarter. A rise of this size would be the largest since the fourth quarter of 1984 when industrial output rose 2.7 pct, the officials said. They also said an expected upturn in exports would be a mixed blessing as it would contribute to economic growth but would increase the chance of trade friction. Japanese exports contracted five pct in February from January but are likely to grow from March if the yen stabilizes around current levels, the officials said. They predicted exports will increase by 2.3 pct in the January/March quarter from the October/December quarter. "But the problem is imports are not expanding," said one official. Imports fell by 9.4 pct in February from January. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS BANK WILL INTERVENE IF NECESSARY

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said in a statement the central bank will intervene in foreign exchange markets to stabilise exchange rates if necessary in close cooperation with other major industrial nations. Sumita said the Bank will take adequate measures including market intervention, if necessary, in line with the February 22 Paris agreement by six major industrial nations. Canada, Britain, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate in stabilising exchange rates around current levels. Sumita's statement was issued after the dollar slipped below 150 yen to hit a record low of 148.40. "It is inevitable that exchange rates fluctuate under the system of floating rates," Sumita said. The fact the dollar plunged below 150 yen does not mean anything significant under the floating system, he said. The six nations agreed in Paris exchange rates prevailing then were broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and further substantial rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects in their countries, the Paris statement said. Reuter 
JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln, dealers said. One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrs through brokers and the rest through banks. The buying began when the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive the U.S. Currency up to around 150, he said. Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to push the dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around that level quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen, dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S 1986/87 SUGAR CANE OUTPUT SEEN FALLING

An Agriculture Ministry survey has estimated the nation's 1986/87 crop sugar cane output at 2.14 mln tonnes, down from 2.62 mln a year earlier. Ministry officials said the decline was due to bad weather and a reduction in the land under sugar cane this season, which totals 34,800 hectares, down from 35,700 in 1985/86, they said. Harvesting stretches from December 1986 to April 1987 Japan's final output will be announced at the beginning of June, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN INTERVENING TO KEEP DOLLAR UP, BROKERS

The Bank of Japan is continuing to intervene in the Tokyo market, buying small amounts of dollars to hold the unit above 149 yen, brokers said. They said the Bank is coming in when the dollar is around 149.05/10 yen, the same levels as New York's close yesterday and the midday close in Tokyo today. Dealers said the Bank of Japan is intervening in the market through both banks and brokers this afternoon. The central bank is checking selling orders through banks and placing matching buy orders, they said. The central bank started to intervene shortly after the market opened here in the afternoon, the dealers said. REUTER 
EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO CUT DISCOUNT RATE-SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank has no intention of cutting its discount rate again as a way of preventing the yen's rise. He told a press conference that the growth of Japanese money supply remains high. The bank will have to watch closely various developments resulting from its already eased monetary stance, such as the sharp rise in real estate and stock prices, he said. Although the yen's rise will have a greater deflationary impact on the economy, the economy is not likely to slow down much further, Sumita said. "I don't think we should change our economic outlook at the moment," Sumita said. Sumita has said in the past that he expects the economy to show a gradual upturn in the second half of the year. The governor said the six major industrial nations are expected to review last month's pact on currency stability when they meet next in April. Dealers said they expect the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. Amd West Germany - to meet just before the IMF/World Bank interim committee meeting in Washington starting on April 9. REUTER 
TWO JAPANESE STEELMAKERS TO CUT CAPITAL SPENDING

Nippon Steel Corp <NSTC.TOK> said it will cut its capital spending by 36.4 pct to 105 billion yen in the year starting April 1 from a year earlier due to the postponement of furnace improvements. <Nisshin Steel Co Ltd> said it will spend 10.7 billion yen in 1987/88 for rationalisation and facility improvements, down from 32.1 billion a year earlier, after completion of large construction projects in 1986/87. But capital spending by Nippon Kokan K.K. <NKKT.TOK> to improve and increase its production facilities will rise to 94.90 billion yen from 64 billion, the company said. REUTER 
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DOLLAR, NIKKEIREN SAYS

The yen could rise to 140 yen to the dollar, a leading Japanese businessman said. Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), told reporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar). The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economy is not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)." "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S. Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as the American situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," he said. To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen, Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means, including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said. He rejected recent calls from some government quarters for wage increases this year as a means of raising private consumption and thus boosting domestic demand. "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said. He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressing the outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in addition to hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic market manufacturers through cheap imports. Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsuki said. Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and a downturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect service industries, he said. It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fully employ those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, he said. Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall in the business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possible recession in the Japanese economy, he said. Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyond levels experienced in 1986. The government's Economic Planning Agency said last week the economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performance since 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oil price crisis. In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost the economy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of land and reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along with steps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses and exporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, trading house officials said. The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderate their foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise in the yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It made the request by telephone. A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey of foreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But he said it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling. The trading house officials said MITI had asked them to undertake foreign exchange transactions with due consideration to the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements would have on the economy. The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys when exchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was made when the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 on January 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday. He said the survey showed currency transactions by trade houses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER 
YEN MAY RISE TO 140 TO THE DLR, NIKKEIREN SAYS

The yen could rise to 140 yen to the dollar, a leading Japanese businessman said. Bumpei Otsuki, president of the influential Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, (Nikkeiren), told reporters: "The yen might rise as far as 140 (to the dollar). The U.S. Economy is not good, and as long as the U.S. Economy is not good, the U.S. Will put various pressures (on Japan)." "The yen's level depends on the condition of the U.S. Economy rather than Japan's economy, and as long as the American situation is bad, the yen will continue to rise," he said. To cope with the negative impact of the strong yen, Japanese enterprises must strive to cut costs by all means, including holding down wages as much as possible, Otsuki said. He rejected recent calls from some government quarters for wage increases this year as a means of raising private consumption and thus boosting domestic demand. "We have to keep wages as low as possible," he said. He also said the yen's large and rapid rise is depressing the outlook for the Japanese economy, noting that in addition to hurting exporters it is also damaging domestic market manufacturers through cheap imports. Parts of the service sector are also threatened, Otsuki said. Tertiary industries provide services to manufacturers and a downturn in manufacturing profits will adversely affect service industries, he said. It is also doubtful whether the tertiary sector can fully employ those put out of work in the manufacturing sector, he said. Profits of service sector companies are likely to fall in the business year ending in March 1988, leading to a possible recession in the Japanese economy, he said. Otsuki said economic growth is unlikely to pick up beyond levels experienced in 1986. The government's Economic Planning Agency said last week the economy grew at 2.5 pct in 1986, the worst performance since 1974 when the economy shrank 1.4 pct due to the first oil price crisis. In order to stimulate domestic demand and boost the economy, tax reforms aimed at bringing down the cost of land and reforming the nation's housing stock are needed, along with steps to bring down the high cost of commodities, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS MODEST AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars this morning, possibly around 200 to 300 mln, dealers said. One dealer said the central bank bought about 200 mln dlrs through brokers and the rest through banks. The buying began when the dollar was at about 149.60 yen, and helped drive the U.S. Currency up to around 150, he said. Another said the central bank seemed to be trying to push the dollar up above 150 yen. But heavy selling at around that level quickly pushed the dollar back down towards 149 yen, dealers said. REUTER 
EXCHANGE RATES ALMOST WITHIN G-6 LEVELS - SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said that current exchange rates are almost within the levels agreed to by six major nations last month in Paris. Asked whether a dollar/yen rate of 148 or 149 reflected economic fundamentals, he said current rates almost reflect fundamentals. Sumita told reporters major nations have cooperated to bring about currency stability in line with the Paris agreement, which stipulated that they would closely cooperate to that end. He repeated the central bank will intervene if necessary, adding he did not think a dollar free-fall was likely. But Sumita said he could not say exactly what currency levels would be considered in line with underlying economic fundamentals. In Paris on February 22, Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany agreed to cooperate to hold currencies around their then current levels. Sumita said he could not find any specific reasons behind the fall of the dollar to a record low against the yen yesterday. But he said the market rushed to sell dollars as it nervously reacted to statements abroad and to developments surrounding trade tensions. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said over the weekend that the Paris pact did not encompass fixed tragets for the dollar. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter called U.S/Japan relations on certain key trade issues very strained. The market reacted nervously because the dollar has been moving narrowly against the yen since mid-January, Sumita said. He added he does not expect the yen/dollar exchange rate to remain unstable because the market is concerned about a sharp rise of the yen. The Bank of Japan will keep a close watch on exchange rates in line with the Paris accord, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS TRADERS, EXPORTERS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has asked about 30 Japanese trading houses and exporters to refrain from excessive dollar selling, trading house officials said. The officials told Reuters MITI asked them to moderate their foreign exchange trading because the excessive rise in the yen will have unfavourable effects on the economy. It made the request by telephone. A MITI official said the ministry has conducted a survey of foreign exchange trading by trade houses and exporters. But he said it was not aimed at moderating dollar selling. The trading house officials said MITI had asked them to undertake foreign exchange transactions with due consideration to the adverse effects excessive exchange rate movements would have on the economy. The MITI official said MITI undertakes such surveys when exchange rates fluctuate widely. A similiar survey was made when the currency fell to the previous record low of 149.98 on January 19. It hit a new record low of 148.20 yen yesterday. He said the survey showed currency transactions by trade houses and exporters contributed little to the dollar fall. REUTER 
FURTHER YEN RISE WOULD HURT JAPAN ECONOMY, SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said a further yen rise would have adverse effects on the Japanese economy. He told Japanese business leaders the Bank of Japan will continue to take adequate measures, including market intervention, to stabilize exchange rates if necessary, in close cooperation with other major industrialized nations. He said the current instability of exchange rates will not last. Six major nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - agreed in Paris last month to act together to hold currencies stable. Sumita said the Bank of Japan will continue to pursue adequate and flexible monetary policies while watching economic and financial developments in and outside Japan. He said the decision to cut the discount rate on February 20 was a hard choice for the Bank because monetary conditions had already been sufficiently eased. To prevent a resurgence of inflation, the Bank will take a very cautious stance regarding developments stemming from easy credit conditions, he said. He said the latest discount rate cut to 2.5 pct should stabilize exchange rates and expand domestic demand. Commenting on the dollar's fall below 150 yen, Sumita reiterated he cannot find any specific reason for the currency's weakness. The market undertook speculative dollar selling by reacting to overseas comments by monetary authorities and trade tension, he said. Sumita repeated that the Japanese economy may gradually recover in the latter half of the 1987/88 fiscal year ending April 1, 1988, provided exchange rates stabilize. REUTER 
TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said it is in Japan's national interest to make greater efforts to reduce its trade surplus. He told business executives the most important issues for the world economy are the correction of international trade imbalances and a solution to the world debt problem. To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make medium- and long-term efforts to alter economic structures which have expanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economic growth and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' export markets are needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS MAJOR NATIONS ACTING ON PARIS ACCORD

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said major nations are taking action to stabilise exchange rates in line with their agreement in Paris last month, government sources said. Miyazawa told an Upper House session the six nations -- Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany -- are abiding by the Paris accord. The six agreed to cooperate to stabilise exchange rates at around current levels. Miyazawa said he wishes to attend a meeting of seven major nations (G-7) expected just before the IMF/World Bank Interim Committee meeting in Washington starting on April 9. The sources quoted Miyazawa as saying Japan is trying to prevent a further rise of the yen. Japan is taking the matter seriously, he added. Asked if the six nations had agreed to stabilise the dollar at about 153 yen, the rate prevailing at the time of the Paris talks, Miyazawa declined to give specific figures and said any mention of specific rates would create an "unexpected situation." REUTER 
TRADE SURPLUS CUT WOULD BENEFIT JAPAN - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said it is in Japan's national interest to make greater efforts to reduce its trade surplus. He told business executives the most important issues for the world economy are the correction of international trade imbalances and a solution to the world debt problem. To this end, Japan and the U.S. Must make medium- and long-term efforts to alter economic structures which have expanded the trade gap between the two nations. World economic growth and therefore an expansion of debtor countries' export markets are needed to solve the debt issue, he added. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS SMALL QUANTITY DOLLARS -DEALERS

The Bank of Japan was thought to have bought a small amount of dollars at around 149.30/40 yen, dealers said. The dollar fluctuated marginally after the small-scale intervention, believed to total several tens of mlns of dlrs, they said. Large-scale buying by foreign banks or by a life insurance company earlier pushed the dollar upwards, they said. Trading was not very active and dealers were watching for further central bank intervention to smooth out any sharp movements, but underlying dollar sentiment is still bearish. REUTER 
WORLD BANK CHIEF CONCERNED ABOUT BRAZIL ECONOMY

World Bank president Barber Conable said he was concerned about the state of Brazil's economy and urged the country to come up with a plan soon to put its economic house in order. "I am very concerned about the Brazilian economy," he told reporters after a news conference in Tokyo. He said Brazil had caught the attention of the world with its decision last month to stop paying interest on its loans from commercial banks but warned it not to sqaunder the time it gained by failing to come up with a new economic program. Brazil's decision jolted the world's financial community as the country is 108 billion dlrs in debt, including some 68 billion owed to commercial banks. Brazilian Finance Ministry sources said in Brasilia yesterday that the country was preparing a new economic strategy designed to ensure domestic economic growth. Despite mounting domestic and overseas pressure, Brazil has said repeatedly that it will not go to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for help in drawing up a new plan for fear that will only throw its economy into recession. Conable said the country may be able to get away with not going to the IMF for help, but will need an IMF-type economic program if it wants to regain the confidence of lenders. Outsiders like the World Bank are reluctant to suggest possible solutions to Brazil's economic problems because of the delicate political situation there, he added. While the World Bank has a role to play in helping Brazil, it canot replace the IMF as an overseer of the economy, Conable said. He added that the Fund can be very flexible in its dealings with developing countries, adjusting its approach to the political realities. Brazil still seems willing to talk to the Fund under the annual discussions that all IMF members undertake, Conable said, adding that this could partially solve the current stalemate. During his news conference, Conable said the World Bank backed U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's Third World debt initiative, which calls for stepped up lending to heavily indebted Third World countries adopting economic policies. "The World Bank believes the Baker initiative is the best approach," he said. "Debt forgiveness is difficult to design in any fair way and also will tend to discourage further investment and development." He cited the recent multi-billion dollar debt package for Mexico, the Third World's most indebted country after Brazil. "Will it work?" he asked. "We don't know...But we think it more likely to work than any of the alternatives suggested." Conable, who is here to meet government and business leaders, expressed confidence that Japan will make increasing use of its huge trade surplus to help developing countries. "We are quite confident Japan will make an increasing investment in development because of their willingness to support institutions like ours in increasing ways with each passing year," he said. REUTER 
JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY

Japan's consumer price index (base 1985) was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January. The February index was down one pct from a year earlier for the third consecutive year-on-year drop. In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, the first drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September 1958. In February petrol prices increased but winter clothing prices stayed low and vegetable prices fell. The February year on year fall was due to lower vegetable, fuel oil, petrol, electricity and gas prices, and despite higher housing, education, footwear and clothing costs. The unadjusted consumer price index for the Tokyo area (base 1985) in mid-March rose 0.4 pct from a month earlier to 100.6, reflecting higher vegetable prices. The index fell 0.3 pct year on year, the third consecutive yearly drop, reflecting lower food and utility costs. REUTER 
JAPAN DRAFT ECONOMIC PACKAGE DUE IN EARLY APRIL

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has told his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to come up with a draft economic package in early April in time for his visit to Washington starting on April 29, government officials said. Nakasone also instructed the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA) to work closer with the LDP to work out a full-fledged economic plan to boost domestic demand as pledged at last month's Paris currency stability accord by six industrial countries, the officials told Reuters. The date for the government to announce its package, based on the LDP's suggested measures, is not yet known but it may be before the fiscal 1987 budget passes the Parliament around late May, the officials said. The government has said in the past the package should come after the passage of the budget. But calls have grown at home and abroad for the government to announce it earlier as budget debates have been stalled by an opposition boycott of parliamentary business in protest at a planned five pct sales tax. EPA chief Tetsuo Kondo told a press conference he sees a need to work on the economic plan early although the government's stance on the date for the plan remains the same, an EPA spokesman said. Projected measures include promoting house construction, infrastructure and urban development, he quoted Kondo as saying. Under last month's Paris currency agreement, Japan promised to work out a comprehensive economic plan to stimulate domestic demand, increase imports and so help reduce its huge trade surplus. The government announced today Nakasone will visit Washington on April 29 for a week to discuss bilateral issues, including the trade imbalance, with President Reagan and other officials. REUTER 
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN FEBRUARY

Japan's industrial production index (base 1980) rose 0.3 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.7 in February from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Output fell 0.5 pct in January from a month earlier. The preliminary, unadjusted February index rose 0.6 pct from a year earlier after a 0.5 pct year-on-year rise in January The adjusted February producers' shipment index (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to 118.5 from January when it fell 0.7 pct from December. The unadjusted shipment index rose 1.4 pct from a year earlier after a 1.0 pct year-on-year January gain. The adjusted February index of producers' finished goods (base 1980) fell 1.3 pct to 104.5 from January when it fell 0.3 pct from December. The unadjusted index fell 3.5 pct from a year earlier after a 2.3 pct year-on-year drop in January. A 2.7 pct rise by the electronics industry on higher output of facsimile machines and video tape recorders was a major contributor to the rise in February industrial output, though car production fell from January. The official said industrial production is expected to rise 3.2 pct in March on higher production by machinery, steel and chemical makers but will drop 3.4 pct in April on a downturn in the output of those industries. He gave no further details. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP

Japan's current account surplus rose to 7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago and from 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said. The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January. The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40 billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from 12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said. Japan's February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from 14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion in January, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from 10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January. The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs in February from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mln deficit in January. Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding. Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit last month from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mln deficit in January. The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to 4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37 billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swung to a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus in January. Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus, compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10 billion deficit in January. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a year earlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January. The seasonally adjusted trade surplus fell to 9.16 billion dlrs in February from the record 9.58 billion in January, the Ministry said. The seasonally adjusted current account surplus also dropped to 8.4 billion dlrs in February from the record 8.83 billion set in January. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL

The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget, adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry to issue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fund financing bills, government sources said. Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be used to buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall. The government sources said the amount, covering the first 50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90 pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the full budget. REUTER 
TWO JAPANESE STEELMAKERS' CAPITAL SPENDING FALLS

Kawasaki Steel Corp <KAWS.T> said its parent company's capital spending in the year from April 1 will fall to 75 billion yen from 110 billion in the current year, and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T> said its capital spending will drop to 70 billion yen from 85 billion. Both companies said they do not plan to start new large construction projects linked to production increases in the coming year, because of the yen's appreciation and slow world steel demand. REUTER 
JAPAN ALUMINIUM OUTPUT FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Japanese aluminium output fell to 5,298 tonnes in February from 7,472 in January and 14,280 a year earlier, preliminary International Trade and Industry Ministry figures show. Output fell sharply from a year ago as most aluminium firms stopped smelting in the past year due to cheap imports, industry sources said. Sales and end-month stocks in tonnes were: Feb 87 Jan 87 Feb 86 Sales 36,557 38,678 75,687 Stocks 53,248 56,620 127,083 REUTER 
JAPAN ALUMINIUM IMPORTS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Japanese primary aluminium imports rose to 98,170 tonnes in February from 91,157 in January and 94,926 a year earlier, the Japan Aluminium Federation said. This brought total imports in 1986/87, ending March 31, to 1.09 mln tonnes against 1.25 mln a year earlier. The February total included 19,102 tonnes from the U.S. Against 16,577 in January and 9,933 a year ago, 24,391 from Australia against 19,585 and 21,208, and 12,611 from Indonesia against 5,891 and 16,601. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK TRADING TO BE SHORTENED FROM MONDAY

The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it will shorten the trading session for stocks and convertible bonds by 30 minutes from March 30 to cope with high volume and will maintain the cut as long as excessive trading continues. Stock turnover hit a record 2.6 billion shares today, exceeding the previous peak of 2.4 billion set on March 18. Afternoon trading will start at 1330 local time (0430 GMT) instead of the current 1300. (0400). REUTER 
TRADE SURPLUS WILL POSE ADDED PRESSURES FOR JAPAN

Japan today announced another mammoth monthly trade surplus that economists said would be sure to intensify already mounting pressure on the country for action. "The world has every reason to be furious with Japan for not moving more quickly," Jardine Fleming (Securities) Ltd economist Eric Rasmussen said. The Finance Ministry said today that the trade surplus soared to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 5.7 billion in January and 4.77 billion a year ago. The current account surplus, which includes trade in services as well as goods, climbed to 7.38 billion dlrs last month from 4.95 billion in January and 3.89 billion a year ago. After being adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, the figures look a bit better, but not much. On that basis, the trade surplus declined slightly in February to 9.16 billion dlrs from a record 9.58 billion in January. "In the medium term we expect this modest improvement to continue but the pace of progress may be too slow to ward off further protectionism or further yen strength," said William Stirling, economist at Merrill Lynch Japan Inc. A strong yen would make Japanese goods more expensive on world markets while making imports into the country cheaper. "On a seasonally adjusted basis, we appear to be making some progress on getting exports down," Jardine's Rasmussen said. But imports do not seem to be picking up much because the Japanese economy remains sluggish, he said. Finance Ministry officials blamed last month's slower import growth on a decline in oil imports as refiners worked off stocks they had built up in January. The officials took comfort from a decline in the volume of exports last month, after an unexpected year-on-year increase in January. This means the effects of the two-year rise of the yen against the U.S. Dollar are finally beginning to have an impact on exports, they said. But economists warned that may not be soon enough for Japan's trading partners. REUTER 
WORLD BANK CHIEF URGES MORE JAPANESE INVESTMENT

World Bank President Barber Conable called on Japan to boost investment in developing nations, for its own sake as well as that of the world economy. "Japan has the means to make a major contribution to development in the Third World," he told about 500 Japanese businessmen and academics. "I would be pleased with additional support." With 25 pct of the world's total banking assets, Japan could do more to help assist indebted Third World countries develop roads, bridges and other infrastructure, he said. Conable said additional commercial bank investment would also be to Japan's advantage. It would profit from rechannelling its huge trade surplus into Third World economies -- notably those in South America, China and India -- that are likely to expand faster than those in the developed world, he said. Japan is now the second largest shareholder in the Bank's concessionary lending affiliate, the International Development Association (IDA). It has also agreed recently to expand its contribution to another affiliate, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), Conable noted. Conable said the World Bank was expanding its structural adjustment loans, designed to encourage developing countries to open their economies more to free competition and trade. "Adjustment loans could rise to 30 pct (of total World Bank loans) in the near future, though maybe not this year," Conable told Reuters after his speech. Such loans currently account for slightly over 20 pct. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS ASIDE YEN FUNDS TO PREVENT DLR FALL

The 50-day provisional 1987/88 budget, adopted today by the government, allows the Finance Ministry to issue up to 14,600 billion yen worth of foreign exchange fund financing bills, government sources said. Foreign exchange dealers said the yen funds would be used to buy dollars, to prevent a further dollar fall. The government sources said the amount, covering the first 50 days of the year starting April 1, accounts for more than 90 pct of the 16,000 billion yen in bills incorporated in the full budget. REUTER 
JAPAN FEBRUARY CURRENT ACCOUNT, TRADE SURPLUS JUMP

Japan's current account surplus rose to 7.38 billion dlrs in February from 3.89 billion a year ago and from 4.95 billion in January, the Finance Ministry said. The trade surplus rose to 8.14 billion dlrs in February from 4.77 billion a year earlier and 5.70 billion in January. The long-term capital account deficit widened to 11.40 billion dlrs from 8.06 billion a year ago, but it narrowed from 12.32 billion in January, the Ministry said. Japan's February exports rose to 16.74 billion dlrs from 14.89 billion in February 1986 and from 14.65 billion in January, the Ministry said. Imports fell to 8.61 billion from 10.12 billion a year earlier and 8.94 billion in January. The invisible trade deficit fell to 617 mln dlrs in February from 693 mln a year earlier, but was up from a 527 mln deficit in January. Figures do not tally exactly because of rounding. Transfer payments narrowed to a 140 mln dlr deficit last month from a 185 mln deficit a year earlier and a 225 mln deficit in January. The basic balance of payments deficit in February fell to 4.02 billion dlrs from 4.17 billion in February 1986 and 7.37 billion in January. Short-term capital account payments swung to a 1.28 billion dlr deficit in February from a 1.60 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.44 billion dlr surplus in January. Errors and omissions were 2.65 billion dlrs in surplus, compared with a 1.27 billion surplus a year earlier and a 1.10 billion deficit in January. The overall balance of payments deficit rose to 2.65 billion dlrs from 1.30 billion a year earlier but was down from 7.04 billion in January. REUTER 
JAPAN CONSUMER PRICES UNCHANGED IN FEBRUARY

Japan's consumer price index (base 1985) was unchanged at 99.7 in February from a month earlier, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The index showed a 0.4 pct drop in January. The February index was down one pct from a year earlier for the third consecutive year-on-year drop. In January, the index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier, the first drop of over one pct since a 1.3 pct drop in September 1958. Reuter 
SOUTH KOREA SIGNS FOR 44.6 BILLION YEN CREDIT

South Korea signed with Japan for a 44.6 billion yen credit facility, part of a four billion dlr aid package for South Korea's economic development plan to 1988, Foreign Ministry officials here said. The facility, to be used mostly for building a multi-purpose dam and modernising educational and medical facilities and for sewer projects, bears interest of 4.25 pct per year and is repayable over 18 years after a grace period of seven years. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan has already purchased more than one billion dlrs in intervention since the opening and continues to buy the U.S. Currency, dealers said. The central bank was supporting the dollar against the yen amid heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and securities houses which had pushed the dollar as low as 144.75 yen earlier this morning, they said. The dollar recovered slightly from the intervention and was trading around 145.00, they added. It had opened in Tokyo at 145.80 yen. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fall further. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely with other major nations to stabilize exchange rates. The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watch on exchange rate movements since last week, he said. He said the dollar would not continue to fall because of underlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen. Sumita said the currency market has been reacting to overseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and the U.S. Over semiconductors. The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan from expanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economic restructuring, he said. REUTER 
DLR FALLS ON FEAR TOKYO WON'T HIKE DEMAND-MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand. He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget. The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. REUTER 
JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY -- SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar. But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. REUTER 
SUMITOMO MINING <SMIT.T> RAISES NICKEL OUTPUT

Sumitomo Metal Mining Co said it will raise its monthly nickel output to around 1,750 tonnes from April 1 from 1,650 now because of increased domestic demand, mainly from stainless steel makers. Sumitomo produced 1,800 tonnes of a nickel a month until end-1986, but cut output in January because of stagnant demand, a company official said. Calendar 1987 production is likely to fall to around 20,000 tonnes from 22,000 in 1986 as a result of the first quarter reduction, he said. Sumitomo is Japan's only nickel producer. REUTER 
JAPAN VEHICLE EXPORTS FALL IN FEBRUARY

Japanese vehicle exports fell 8.2 pct in February from January to 530,066, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said. February exports fell 6.8 pct from a year earlier after a 6.8 pct year-on-year rise in January, the first growth since June 1986, when they rose 4.4 pct from a year earlier. February exports included 361,285 cars, down 6.3 pct from a year earlier, 165,770 trucks, down 8.6 pct, and 3,011 buses, up 51.4 pct. Exports to the U.S. Fell to 226,942 in February from 259,272 a year earlier, while those to the European Community rose to 141,095 from 121,050. The EC figure included 63,387 vehicles to West Germany, up from 41,821, but exports to Britain fell to 20,554 from 28,536. Shipments to South-east Asia fell to 33,957 from 41,960 and those to the Middle East fell to 15,828 from 25,278. Japan's motorcycle exports rose 18 pct from January to 177,115 in February, but fell 25.9 pct from a year earlier, the 12th consecutive year-on-year drop. REUTER 
JAPANESE KEEN TO ENTER GERMAN PRIMARY BOND MARKET

Japanese securities houses and banks are eager to enter the market for lead-management of mark eurobonds when the ban on Japanese institutions is lifted, but the entry may be difficult, Japanese bankers said. Most Japanese securities houses and banks established here said they have concrete plans to enter lead-management business, as soon as terms are cleared, probably this year. Japan's largest bank, The Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd, is also considering expanding its business here, bankers said. Japanese banks were excluded from lead management of mark eurobonds when the Bundesbank opened that market to foreign banks in May 1985, due to the lack of reciprocity for German banks in the Japanese market. Last year, the Japanese began a slow opening by granting West German banks investment licences. Pressure on Tokyo stepped up last week when U.K. Government sources said Britain may revoke the licences of some Japanese banks and securities firms operating in London when they come up for renewal if progress is not made towards opening Japan's markets to foreign competition. A spokesman for the Dai-Ichi Kangyo representative office here said the bank was naturally considering options such as expanding its mark securities trading operations to Frankfurt. Sources at the bank's London branch said the bank was already seriously planning such a move. Expanding secondary operations would also improve the placement capacity of Japanese houses intending to move into lead management of mark eurobonds. But even Japanese banks already established in secondary markets here face a host of problems in lead management. One is finding borrowers. One banker at Nikko Securities Co Ltd's The Nikko Securities Co (Deutschland) GmbH said the cost of mark issues may be too high for some Japanese firms. "For the moment, for Japanese borrowers, marks are expensive," he said. Many prefer Swiss francs or eurodollars. A Japanese borrower with a five-year equity warrant eurodollar bond issued at 2-1/2 pct can now swap into domestic yen rates of one pct. But mark swap opportunities are limited. In addition, many Japanese companies are committed already to large German banks. To avoid souring relations with German banks they now cooperate with, Japanese houses may prefer finding borrowers so far not seen in the mark sector. Names may include Sanyo Electric Co Ltd and Nishimatsu Construction Co Ltd, which both count Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd as their house bank, or Hokkaido Electric Power Co Inc, which recently gave a presentation here with the Industrial Bank of Japan's unit here. Japanese banks are also faced with finding local personnel, which is not easy. "They are definitely going to have a manpower problem," one Swiss banker said. Swiss and American banks had no trouble attracting top German managers. But Japanese cultural differences will be harder for Germans to overcome. Success may depend on whether Japanese parents allow German subsidiaries independence to operate without interference. Once established, more problems are expected if extra competition shaves margins. Extra competition could cut management fees in the mark sector. Separate management and underwriting fees common here may also be eroded, which now make German underwriting business profitable compared with other centres. A few banks are unsure if they really want to get involved in the business. "I don't think Sumitomo has 100-pct concrete plans at this moment unless there is a new development," a banker at the West German commercial branch of Sumito Bank Ltd in Duesseldorf said. Apart from the commercial branch in Duesseldorf Sumitomo has a rep office in Frankfurt, but both are primarily engaged in commercial banking. If Sumitomo were to set up a securities operation, it would have to set up a full subsidiary, he said. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE CUTS TRADING HOURS

The Tokyo Stock Exchange said it cut trading time from today by 30 minutes to inhibit volume after recent trade turnover records. The cut extends the lunch break to 1115 to 1330 local time (0315 to 0530 GMT) from 1115 to 1300 local time (0315 to 0500 GMT) and follows record turnover of 2.6 billion shares on Friday. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS LARGE AMOUNT OF BRAZILIAN SOYBEANS

Japanese crushers have bought some 214,000 tonnes of Brazilian soybeans for late April/early July shipment and may buy up to 140,000 to 190,000 tonnes more for June to August shipment, trade sources said. Japan imported 128,089 tonnes of Brazilian beans in calendar 1986, Finance Ministry customs-cleared statistics show. The sources said Brazilian beans were cheaper than U.S. Origin which may account for the heavy purchases, but added there were concerns about deliveries from Brazil in the near term due to labour problems there. The Japanese purchases comprise 30,000 tonnes for April 20/May 10 shipment, 102,000 for May, 15,000 for late May/early June, 36,000 for June, and 31,000 for late June/early July shipment, the sources said. As a result of the large volumes of Brazilian beans purchased, Japanese crushers will buy a total of only 150,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for May shipment. Some 100,000 of this shipment has already been purchased, the sources added. They said crushers bought some 270,000 to 280,000 tonnes of U.S. Beans for April shipment. REUTER 



JAPANESE SHIPYARDS TO FORM CARTEL, CUT OUTPUT

Japan's ailing shipyards have won approval from the Fair Trade Commission to form a cartel to slash production to about half of total capacity for one year, effective April 1, industry sources said. The approval follows an act of parliament passed last week designed to help the industry regroup and shed 20 pct of capacity by March 31, 1988, Transport Ministry officials said. The cartel, comprising 33 yards capable of constructing ships of more than 10,000 gross tonnes, will limit newbuilding output to a maximum of three mln compensated gross registered tonnes in 1987/88, the Shipbuilders Association of Japan said. Industry sources said the 33 will seek to renew the cartel in 1988/89 in the belief demand will remain sluggish. Last week's temporary act of parliament also allows shipbuilders to receive favourable taxation terms plus up to 50 billion yen in compensation for liabilities incurred through job losses and the sale of excess capacity. Up to 30 billion yen has been allocated for purchasing redundant land and equipment from shipbuilders. The Ministry will start drawing up its restructuring guidelines from April 1 and the yards will implement the guidelines from September, industry sources said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said. He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall. The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman. Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER 
JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS

A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales. However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks. Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 
G-6 WANTS TO HOLD DLR ABOVE 150 YEN - NAKASONE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said that Japan and other industrialized nations committed themselves in Paris last month to stabilize the dollar above 150 yen. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the six nations have taken measures, including market intervention, to support the dollar above that level. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told the same committee that the six - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - had intervened aggressively since the dollar fell below 150 yen. Miyazawa said major nations are trying hard to stabilize exchange rates. Asked if there had been any change in the fundamentals of each nation since the February 22 Paris accord, he said he did not think the fundamentals themselves had changed substantially. But he said the market is sensitively looking at what is happening in major nations. He did not elaborate. Miyazawa added that it was difficult to say why there has been such speculative dollar selling in the market. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA EXPECTS DOLLAR REBOUND SOON - SPOKESMAN

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expects the dollar to rebound soon, a Ministry spokesman said. He quoted Miyazawa as telling Japanese reporters that major industrial nations are aggressively intervening in currency markets worldwide to prevent a dollar free-fall. The minister believes that market forces will push the dollar back up from its record low of 144.70 yen today, according to the spokesman. Miyazawa told the Japanese reporters the U.S. Unit fell because Japanese investors sold dollars to hedge currency risks before the close of the 1986/87 fiscal year on March 31. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS HE DOES NOT EXPECT FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said he does not expect the dollar to remain unstable and fall further. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that the Bank of Japan would continue to cooperate closely with other major nations to stabilize exchange rates. The central bank has been keeping extremely careful watch on exchange rate movements since last week, he said. He said the dollar would not continue to fall because of underlying market concern about the rapid rise of the yen. Sumita said the currency market has been reacting to overseas statements and to trade tension between Japan and the U.S. over semiconductors. The yen's tendency to rise will prevent Japan from expanding domestic demand and undertaking necessary economic restructuring, he said. Reuter 
DLR FALLS ON FEARS, MIYAZAWA SAYS

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said that the dollar's drop today to 145 yen is partly attributable to the perception inside and outside Japan that the country has failed to fulfill its promise to expand domestic demand. He told a Lower House budget committee in Parliament that it was natural for other nations to think that Japan is not doing enough because of the delay in the passage of the 1987/88 budget. The budget has been delayed by opposition boycotts of Parliament to protest government plans for a new sales tax. Reuter 
JAPAN CAREFULLY CONSIDERING MONEY POLICY - SUMITA

Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita said the central bank will carefully consider its monetary policy in light of the recent sharp fall of the dollar. Asked if the Bank of Japan will consider a further cut in its discount rate, he said he now thinks the bank will have to carefully consider its future money policy. He told a Lower House Budget Committee in Parliament that credit conditions have been eased by the five discount rate cuts by Japan since the beginning of last year. Japan must now be especially careful about a flare-up in inflation, with money supply growth accelerating, he said. Sumita said the central bank would continue to make a judgement on monetary policies while watching consumer prices, exchange rates and economic and financial conditions both in and outside Japan. Asked if the September 1985 Plaza agreement was a failure because the dollar had fallen too far, Sumita said he still thought the pact was a good one in the sense that it had corrected the overvaluation of the dollar. But the Plaza accord did not set any target for the dollar's fall, he said. The dollar's steep fall stems from the market's belief that the trade imbalance will continue to expand, he said. Reuter 
JAPAN SET TO RIDE OUT YEN RISE, OFFICIALS SAY

The government is determined to ride out the latest sharp rise of the yen without taking panic measures because it expects the currency's appreciation to prove temporary, senior officials said. "The market has already located a ceiling (for the yen) and market forces are pushing the dollar back up a bit," one senior Finance Ministry official said. He attributed the dollar's fall in recent days to special factors, in particular, selling by Japanese investors ahead of the March 31 end to their fiscal year. That selling largely came to an end this morning after about one hour of trading here, the senior official said. "They (the investors) became more or less quiet after 10 o'clock (0100 GMT)," he said. After falling to a record low of 144.70 yen this morning, the dollar edged back up in late trading to end at 146.20. Dealers attributed the late rise to remarks by Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone that major nations had agreed to stabilise the dollar above 150 yen. Several officials said they did not see any fundamental reason for the dollar's recent sharp fall. One official even called the market's recent actions irrational. If anything, the U.S. Decision to slap tariffs on Japanese electronics goods should support the dollar against the yen because it will cut Japanese exports to the U.S., He said. As a result, several officials said they saw no reason to alter the broad thrust of government policy agreed to at last month's meeting of major nations in Paris. "We don't see any substantial reason to change our policy stance," one senior official said. 
JAPAN CONDUCTS CURRENCY SURVEY OF BIG INVESTORS

A Finance Ministry official said the ministry has recently conducted a survey on foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors but declined to say if it was aimed at moderating their dollar sales. However, financial market sources said they had heard the ministry has asked life insurance and securities firms to refrain from selling dollars, but they were unable to confirm this directly. Dealers said life insurance firms were not major sellers of dollars in recent trading sessions because they had already sold them to hedge risks. Dealers said securities houses and trust banks on the other hand have aggressively sold the dollar. REUTER 
SONY INCREASING PRODUCTION ABROAD

Sony Corp <SNE.T> will increase production abroad to overcome falling profits caused by the yen's rise against the dollar, managing board chairman Akio Morita told the West German newspaper Die Welt. He was quoted as saying that Sony, whose latest profit figures had been affected strongly by dollar fluctuations, would increase production in the U.S. And Europe. Several production facilities were being built, he added. "At the same time we are also investing capital in order to modernise our locations and raise our productivity." Morita said that to overcome the same currency problems, Japan needs to restructure its economy in order to live less from exports and more from domestic demand. He said U.S. And European companies had made the mistake of not investing enough in the future, which was why they had lost their lead in consumer electronics. "They may spend a lot of money on research and development," he said. "But planning and marketing are very important sectors in developing a marketable product." "If they don't spend money on these, they can't build up new business lines." Speaking of difficulties foreign firms experience in penetrating the Japanese market, Morita said "Naturally, I have to admit that there are still many obstacles in Japan." On the other hand, many foreign firms were too interested in short-term success, he said. "If, therefore, a company comes to Japan and wants to make a profit at once on this market, it is not so simple." "These people then complain, while the successful firms keep their mouths shut," Morita said. Reuter 
JAPAN BUYS CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 2,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
Japan February unemployment falls to 2.9 pct (3.0 pct in January) - official



JAPAN UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate fell to 2.9 pct in February from the record 3.0 pct in January, the government's Management and Coordination Agency said. The January level was the worst since the Goverment started compiling unemployment statistics under the current system in 1953. Unemployment was up from 2.8 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted February unemployment totalled 1.86 mln people, up from 1.82 mln in January and 1.64 mln a year earlier. Male unemployment in February remained at 2.9 pct, equal to the second-highest level set in January and December. Record male unemployment of 3.1 pct was set in July 1986. Female unemployment rose to a record 3.1 pct in February from the previous record 3.0 pct marked in January 1987 and in April, August, September and December last year. "Japan's employment condition was still severe in February as the non-rounded rate of unemployment in February fell only 0.03 percentage points to 2.93 pct from 2.96 pct in January," an agency official said. Employment in manufacturing industries fell 430,000 from a year earlier to 14.22 mln people in February due to the yen's continued appreciation, while employment in non-manufacturing industries rose 380,000 to 12.11 mln. In manufacturing industries, employment in the textile industry fell 180,000 to 1.94 mln in February, while in ordinary and precision machinery industries it fell 160,000 to 1.50 mln. REUTER 
DLR BELOW 150 YEN COUNTER TO PARIS PACT - MIYAZAWA

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said he regards a U.S. Dollar below 150 yen as counter to the agreement struck by major nations in Paris last month. He told the Upper House Budget Committee in Parliament that Japan intervened in the market when the dollar went below 150 yen, as it considered the dollar's fall below that level counter to the spirit of the Paris accord. Commenting on current foreign exchange movements, Miyazawa said Japan would watch developments for another couple of days. Institutional investors appeared to have sold dollars to hedge currency risks ahead of the end of the financial year today, Miyazawa said. Behind the recent dollar fall lies the market perception that major nations were not doing enough to implement their policies under the Paris pact, he said, noting that passage of Japan's 1987/88 budget has been delayed. He said that now was the time for major nations to act under the Paris accord. The U.S., West Germany, France, Switzerland and Britain have intervened on their own account to prop up the dollar, he said. This was a concerted action. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS AROUND 145.75 YEN - DEALERS



JAPAN HOUSING STARTS RISE IN FEBRUARY

Japan's housing starts in February rose 13.4 pct from a year earlier to 109,254, the 10th successive year-on-year gain, the Construction Ministry said. February housing starts were up 16.8 pct from 93,554 in January when they fell 27.4 pct from a month earlier but rose 10.3 pct from a year earlier. Higher housing starts were mainly due to a 26.8 pct year-on-year rise in apartment building starts to 51,829 for the 56th consecutive gain, spurred primarily by lower domestic interest rates. RUTER 
NAKASONE SAYS JAPAN PLANS DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said Japan plans to work out a drastic set of pump-priming measures immediately after Parliament passes the 1987/88 budget. He told a Lower House budget committee the government is likely to consider a supplementary budget for fiscal 1987 and a new policy for the ceiling on budgetary requests by government agencies and ministries for 1988/89. The government had cut budgetary requests in the past five years in line with Nakasone's fiscal reconstruction policy of stopping the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. The passage of the budget is expected in late May. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said in the same session Japan should use fiscal funds as much as possible to meet domestic and foreign demands for greater domestic growth. Miyazawa said it appears difficult for the government to stop the deficit-financing bond issues by the targetted time. Nakasone said he had instructed his Liberal Democratic Party to prepare its own economic package in time for his one-week visit to Washington starting on April 29. REUTER 
JAPAN TO PAY FIVE PCT LESS FOR INDIAN IRON ORE

Japan will pay five pct less for the Indian iron ore it imports in fiscal 1987/88 starting April 1 than the average 18 dlrs a tonne it paid in 1986/87, a government trade official told Reuters. He said India had agreed to export to Japan about 23 mln tonnes of iron ore in 1987/88, about the same as in the current year. The official described the agreement as satisfactory overall. He said it was signed by an official Indian trade delegation and Japanese businessmen in Tokyo last week. The official said it was encouraging that Japan had agreed not to reduce ore imports from India although Japan's total iron ore imports would be lower in the coming year because of the recession in the Japanese steel industry. He said Japanese ore imports in calendar 1987 would total 96 mln tonnes, compared with 103.5 mln in 1986. Government officials said India's total ore exports are likely to rise to between 33 and 34 mln tonnes in 1987/88, against a provisionally estimated 31 mln in 1986/87. REUTER 
FUJI FILM <FUJI.T> TO SET UP WEST GERMAN UNIT

Fuji Photo Film Co Ltd will set up a wholly-owned subsidiary in Kleve, West Germany, to produce video cassette tapes, a spokesman said. The company, <Fuji Magnetics GmbH>, will be capitalised at 25 mln marks and produce two mln tapes a month for the European market from early 1988, he said. Total investment will be about 100 mln marks and the plant will create 200 jobs, including about 190 for local workers. Fuji Photo plans to make the Kleve plant its European production centre for magnetic products, and may make audio cassette tapes and floppy discs later, the spokesman said. REUTER 
JAPANESE HESITATE TO INVEST IN WEST GERMAN STOCKS

Japanese investors are reluctant to buy West German stocks, now considered one of the most attractive buys around after having taken a beating for the past two years, investment managers said. Although the Frankfurt stock market is one of the world's largest in capitalisation, wealthy Japanese institutions view it as too small. They also worry about venturing into a market from which British investors have recently bailed out, they said. "There's not enough turnover there to absorb the amount of buying Japanese want to do," one West German investment manager said. There is a danger Japanese institutions may be unable to liquidate their holdings quickly if the market takes a sudden downturn, he added. "Japanese familiarity with West German stocks is also limited," another investment manager said. "They know the blue chips, but there are too many other names they don't know." The recent rapid advance of the Tokyo stock market has also deterred Japanese from wandering off to markets abroad, investment managers said. Japanese fund managers are afraid of criticism if they buy into unsure overseas markets while the market at home continues to advance, said Seiji Yamamoto, senior manager at Dresdner ABD Securities Ltd's Tokyo branch. If gains from investments abroad lag behind those possible from the Tokyo market, they could face difficulty explaining their funds' performance, he added. The Frankfurt market's 15 pct depreciation just since the beginning of this year has also been causing Japanese investors to turn away, one investment manager said. The Frankfurt slump stems from expectations of slow corporate growth due to the mark's strength against the dollar and a withdrawal of funds by British institutions just before the London market's liberalisation last year, the investment manager said. "Right now Japanese investors are taking a wait-and-see attitude while the condition of the market remains unfavourable," he said. Although there has been some nibbling of West German stocks, particularly last week, most of the buys were for short-term trades rather than long-term investments, an investment advisor at a West German firm said. Investment managers believe, however, that genuine interest in West German stocks could develop within the next three to six months. Japanese fund managers still favour the New York and the London markets over the Frankfurt market but they are interested in diversifying some of their funds, they said. Some managers have been travelling in Europe, looking for new opportunities, and are unlikely to ignore West German stocks, especially with the average price/earnings ratio at about 11, they said. The Frankfurt ratio compares with about 16 for the U.S. And London markets and 52 for the Japanese market, Guenter Kirchhain, first vice president for Deutsche Bank AG said. "This mismatching will sooner or later generate an enormous alignment potential," he said. The West German market could reasonably have an average price/earnings ratio of around 16, he added. Japanese investment plans may soon become clearer as many institutions begin their new business years in April, he said. However, one fund manager does not agree that new investment in West Germany will come that soon. "Japanese do not buy into a market with declining fundamentals," he said. When West Germany's fundamental economic indicators appear to have bottomed out, that will be the turning point for their investments, he added. Another manager said the Japanese are waiting to see the investment trends set by U.S. And British investors in the West German market. "They are waiting for someone to make the first move," he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN MULLS OTHER OPTIONS TO STOP YEN RISE

Today's liberalised financial markets are making it extremely difficult for Japan's monetary authorities to prevent the yen's rise against the dollar, but they have several options other than normal intervention, Bank of Japan sources said. A senior central bank official said that such methods as controlling foreign exchange deals and invoking currency swap agreements with other central banks, which have not been invoked since 1978, are all being considered. "But the time may not be ripe," he said. "In this era of financial liberalisation, it's almost impossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan," said another senior bank official. But the first official said: "From a technical viewpoint, the Bank of Japan could activate swap agreements immediately after other central banks involved agreed to do so." A swap agreement, an exchange of currency between two nations, allows both sides to acquire a ready source of the other's currency in case of need. "If the Bank invokes such swaps, both parties would announce the decision jointly," said the first official. The sources said they believed the limit of currency market intervention may be being reached after they saw recent concerted market action by central banks of major industrial nations was increasingly ineffective in propping up the battered dollar. But intervention is at least an option, they said. Further easing of monetary policy will be very difficult with an official discount rate already at a record low of 2.5 pct, they said. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita has repeatedly ruled out another rate cut due to fears it could revive inflation. One bank official said he could not deny the possibilty of the Bank of Japan activating currency swap agreements with the U.S. And other central banks, if these banks continue intervening to sell the yen in support of the dollar and run out of their yen cash positions. "But we don't think they have become short of yen quite yet," he said. The bank has established a five billion dlr swap limit with the U.S. Federal Reserve and another 2.5 billion mark and 200 billion yen limit with the West German and Swiss central banks, according to the sources. Foreign exchange dealers estimate the Fed had sold two billion dlrs worth of yen from its own account to support the dollar in New York last week. The central bank sources also said Japan may arrange other currency swap agreements with Britain and France if they find it necessary, but added they are not actually talking with each other towards that end. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,700 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total, 300 billion yen will yield 3.8992 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 23-day repurchase accord maturing on April 24. The remaining 500 billion yen will yield 3.8990 pct in a 31-day repurchase pact maturing on May 2, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8750 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and the 4.28/11 pct rate on one-month certificates of deposit. Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to excess bank holdings from sales of yen to buy dollars and to huge cash amounts to be redeposited at banks after the current financial year-end today, the traders said. The operation will put the outstanding bill supply at about 3,200 billion yen. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAYS JAPAN PLANS DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said Japan plans to work out a drastic set of pump-priming measures immediately after Parliament passes the 1987/88 budget. He told a Lower House budget committee the government is likely to consider a supplementary budget for fiscal 1987 and a new policy for the ceiling on budgetary requests by government agencies and ministries for 1988/89. The government had cut budgetary requests in the past five years in line with Nakasone's fiscal reconstruction policy of stopping the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. The passage of the budget is expected in late May. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said in the same session Japan should use fiscal funds as much as possible to meet domestic and foreign demands for greater domestic growth. Miyazawa said it appears difficult for the government to stop the deficit-financing bond issues by the targetted time. Nakasone said he had instructed his Liberal Democratic Party to prepare its own economic package in time for his one-week visit to Washington starting on April 29. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN EARLY TOKYO AFTERNOON

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market in the early afternoon, buying dollars around 147.30 yen and continuing to buy them as high as 147.50 yen, dealers said. The Bank intervened just after the dollar started rising on buying by securities houses at around 147.05 yen, and hoped to accelerate the dollar's advance, they said. The dollar rose as high as 147.50 yen. REUTER 
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said the present foreign exchange market instability will not last long as there is caution in the market regarding the rapid decline of the U.S. Unit. He told reporters the major currency nations are determined to continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary to stave off speculative dollar selling in line with their February 22 currency stability agreement in Paris. Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop as anything like a free-fall. REUTER 
GLAVERBEL SHARE OFFER OVER 100 TIMES OVERSUBSCRIBED

The public offer by Glaverbel SA, Europe's third biggest glassmaker, of 755,000 shares was more than 100 times oversubscribed, a statement by banks and share dealers responsible for the issue said. Glaverbel offered the shares at 1,850 francs in an operation under which its parent company, Asahi Glass Ltd <ASGL.T> will reduce its participation to 56.7 pct from 73.6 pct previously. Asahi is selling 500,000 shares in Glaverbel while the company itself is issuing 340,000 new shares. Over 10 pct of the total available shares has been reserved for staff. The statement said applicants for over 5,000 shares will receive 30. There is a sliding scale which gives relatively modest applications a higher proportion and those who sought between 101 and 500 shares will receive five. No shares will be given to applicants for fewer than 100 shares. Glaverbel's net consolidated profit rose to 542 mln francs last year from 137 mln in 1985 and the group is to pay a 29 franc gross dividend, its first for over 10 years. As a result of the offer, some 45 pct of Glaverbel's capital, or two mln shares, will be listed on the Brussels bourse. Share dealers said some of the weakness on the bourse recently probably has been due to the amount of money tied up in Glaverbel applications. REUTER 
PROPOSED JAPAN TAX MAY DAMPEN TOKYO GOLD TRADING

A proposed sales tax on gold transactions could put a damper on the Tokyo market and encourage a shift of trading to Hong Kong and Singapore, senior vice president and Tokyo branch manager of Credit Suisse Paul Hofer told a press conference. "If you impose five pct on both buy and sell transactions, Tokyo participants in the gold market could be out of business," he said. The tax would create such a spread that Japanese would be unable to compete in the international market, he added. "How can the government really raise taxes if the system they impose is prohibitive of generating business?" he said. The government now imposes a 15 pct tax on physical trades exceeding 37,500 yen for gold jewellery and coins and a 2.5 yen tax per 10,000 yen on futures transactions, gold dealers said. The new five pct tax would be imposed on companies trading more than 100 mln yen a year and apply to paper gold trades, gold deposits with banks and trading of gold bars as well as that of jewellery and coins, dealers said. However, the tax would lower the rate on jewellery and coins to only five pct from the current 15 pct, they said. Hofer said in 1982 Switzerland had imposed a 5.6 pct gold turnover tax on Jan 1, 1980, but abolished it on Oct 1, 1986. A study by one of the Swiss banks showed that in early 1980, the first year of the tax, the volume for all Swiss banks fell by up to 25 pct compared with 1978 and 1979, Hofer said. Transactions of paper gold also fell up to 75 pct of the volume prior to imposition of the tax, he said. While gold transactions in Switzerland decreased, the volume of trades outside the country, particularly in London and Luxembourg, increased between 10-25 pct, Hofer said. Japan is a major importer of gold, buying a yearly average just under 200 tonnes, gold dealers said. Last year Japan imported about 600 tonnes of gold, but the government had bought about 300 tonnes for minting coins to commemorate the 60th year of Emperor Hirohito's reign, dealers said. Gold trading in Tokyo is dominated mainly by Japanese trading companies, while Credit Suisse is the major foreign participant. Daily turnover in the Tokyo spot market ranges between one and 10 tonnes with the average around three tonnes, while futures turnover amounts to about four tonnes, gold dealers said. "All of us are concerned daily with the fact that the Tokyo market is growing, that Japan is becoming one of the three major financial markets in the world ... And in my personal opinion I think it would be a very big mistake to put a damper on this positive growth or developments by imposing such a tax," Hofer said. "I don't think it fits the philosophy of an internationalising market," he added. Officials of several major Japanese trading houses, attending the press conference, said they supported Credit Suisse's call for the government not to impose the gold tax. REUTER 
KIDNAPPED BUSINESSMAN RELEASED

Kidnapped Japanese businessman Nobuyuki Wakaoji has been released after four months in captivity, Presidential spokesman Teodoro Benigno said. Benigno told reporters the 53-year-old Mitsui and Co Ltd executive was freed yesterday and is being held in an undisclosed hospital. He gave no further details on the release, which was confirmed minutes earlier by a Mitsui spokesman in Tokyo. Reuter 
CURRENCY INSTABILITY WILL NOT LAST - SUMITA

Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita said the present foreign exchange market instability will not last long as there is caution in the market regarding the rapid decline of the U.S. Unit. He told reporters the major currency nations are determined to continue their concerted intervention whenever necessary to stave off speculative dollar selling in line with their February 22 currency stability agreement in Paris. Sumita also said he did not see the recent dollar drop as anything like a free-fall. REUTER 
BANK OF TOKYO ISSUES 100 MLN SFR CONVERTIBLE

The Bank of Tokyo Ltd is issuing 100 mln Swiss francs of convertible notes due September 30, 1992, paying an indicated 1-1/4 pct, lead manager Swiss Bank Corp said. Terms will be set on April 9 with payment due April 30. The conversion period is from May 20, 1987 until September 20, 1992. REUTER 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 5,000 to 6,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for May shipment in export business overnight, trade sources said. Reuter 
BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA TO APPLY FOR TOKYO LISTING

<Bank of Nova Scotia> said it would apply for a common share listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The bank, Canada's fourth largest, said it expected its listing to occur later this year. It said Nomura Securities Co Ltd, of Tokyo, would sponsor its application. Reuter 
CANADA, JAPAN TRADING FIRM AGREE TO BOOST TIES

The federal government and the Japanese trading company, C. Itoh and Co Ltd, have signed a letter of understanding to try and boost trade ties between the two countries, the Industry department said. The two parties have agreed to encourage direct Japanese investment in Canada, bilateral trade, and more joint ventures and licensing accords between Canadian and Japanese companies. C. Itoh has just begun a trade mission in Canada to investigate trading opportunities in the aerospace, autoparts electronics and other sectors and will visit some 30 leading companies across Canada. Reuter 
MEXICO RECIEVES FIRST 250 MLN DLRS OF JAPAN LOAN

mexico today received the first 250 mln dlrs of a 500 mln dlr credit from japan's eximbank aimed at financing a mexican oil pipeline project, the finance ministry announced. The funds will be used in the 700 mln dlr pacific petroleum project, which includes the construction of a 267-klm (160.2-mile) pipeline connecting nuevo teapa in the oil-rich state of veracruz and salina cruz, oaxaca on the pacific coast. The project aims to facilitate mexican oil exports to japan and the far east and is expected to be completed in three years. Reuter 
MEXICO RECIEVES FIRST 250 MLN DLRS OF JAPAN LOAN

mexico received the first 250 mln dlrs of a 500 mln dlr credit from japan's eximbank to finance a mexican oil pipeline, the finance ministry announced. The funds will be used in the 700 mln dlr pacific petroleum project, which includes the construction of a 267-km pipeline connecting nuevo teapa in the oil-rich state of veracruz and salina cruz, oaxaca, on the pacific coast. The project aims to facilitate mexican oil exports to japan and the far east and is expected to be completed in three years. REUTER^M 
INTERNATIONAL PACT ON OZONE DAMAGE LIKELY IN 1987

An international protocol to severely limit the use of industrial chemicals which are believed to damage the earth's protective ozone layer could be signed this year, officials and scientists here said. "By the end of this year, we should have an international protocol in place we can all be proud of," U.S. Environmental protection agency officer Bill Long told reporters. The chemicals are chiefly chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which are used in refrigeration and making foam plastics, solvents and aerosols. The earth's upper ozone layer absorbs most of the harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun. The officials and scientists were meeting in Tokyo, ahead of an international conference on the problem later this month in either Vienna, or Geneva, Long said. Robert Watson, a program manager for atmospheric problems at the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration said a protocol should demand an initial freeze on the use of CFCs by industry. This should be followed by a gradual reduction in CFC volume until no CFC gases are released into the air, he said. The U.S. Has already banned use of use CFCs in aerosols and Japan has asked for voluntary restraint, but both still use CFCs in industrial processes. REUTER 
JAPAN MINISTRY ASKS TRUST BANKS TO CUT DLR SALES

The Finance Ministry has asked trust banks to moderate their dollar selling, trust banking sources said. A Ministry official told Reuters earlier this week the Ministry had recently surveyed foreign exchange transactions by institutional investors, but he declined to say whether this was aimed at moderating the dollar sales. Dealers said institutional investors were reluctant to sell dollars aggressively today partly because of the Ministry monitoring. One senior trust bank source said that while sympathizing with the Ministry position, the trust banks had to conduct their foreign exchange operations according to the dictates of the market. A Bank of Japan official said the central bank approved of the survey as long it was not used too forcefully. But another official denied local press reports that the central bank itself had asked investors to moderate their dollar sales. "We are not legally authorized to do that," he said. A Bank of Japan official also said the central bank will renew its call on financial institutions to moderate excessive loans for the purpose of land and securities investment as such investments threaten to cause inflation. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita had previously expressed concern about excessive investment in land and securities resulting partly from eased credit conditions. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO MODERATE DOLLAR SALES - JIJI

The Finance Ministry has asked commercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, JiJi News Agency reported, quoting financial sources. Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for comment. The report also could not be confirmed by several bank dealers. Earlier, Japanese trust banking sources said the Ministry had asked them to moderate their dollar sales. A Ministry official said earlier this week the ministry had recently surveyed currency transactions by investors, but declined to say whether this aimed at reducing their dollar sales. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAID WILLING TO REVISE SALES TAX PLAN

Japanese press reports said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has said he may compromise on his controversial sales tax plan, bowing to widespread opposition even within his own party. The reports said he told a meeting of supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party today the proposed five pct tax should be amended if there was anything wrong with it. Officials were not immediately available for comment. Until now, Nakasone had vowed to press on with the tax as part of his plan to reform Japan's 36-year-old tax system. But most Japanese newspapers and news agencies quoted him as saying today he would not foist the tax on the Japanese people if they hated it. Opposition parties and some industry groups say the tax breaks Nakasone general election campaign promises last July and would discourage consumer spending, needed to meet government pledges to try to stimulate economic growth. Pressure for the tax to be amended or shelved is likely to increase soon, before a first round of local elections due on April 12, political analysts said. Resistance has spread from opposition parties and affected industries to the LDP. Some 36 of Japan's 47 provincial governments have called for the plan to be scrapped or handled carefully, government officials said. Some leading LDP candidates for the local polls have not asked Nakasone to make a campaign speech for them as they fear his presence would weaken their position in the elections. REUTER 
JAPANESE GROUPS URGE DRASTIC ECONOMIC PACKAGE

Japan's leading economic organisations urged the Government to prepare drastic pump-priming measures even at the cost of shelving Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's planned tax reforms, officials involved said. Officials of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren) said in a meeting with government officials the Government should issue construction bonds as an emergency measure to prop up the economy. Keidanren suggested that proceeds from sales of stocks in the newly-privatised Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp should also be used to stimulate the economy. Keidanren Chairman Eishiro Saito said the dollar's fall below 150 yen would create huge unemployment and bankruptcies that could shake the foundation of the Japanese economy. The Keidanren meeting coincided with a written request for drastic reflationary measures sent to the Government by the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Both organisations called for stepped-up Bank of Japan intervention to stabilise exchange rates. Chamber head Noboru Gotoh told a press conference the awaited economic package should be powerful enough to push up Japan's Gross National Product (GNP) by about two pct. Gotoh said the Government could cope with the present critical economic condition even if it put off its plan to stop the issue of deficit-covering bonds by fiscal 1990. The plan to reduce the fiscal budget is a pillar of Nakasone's fiscal reconstruction program. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES JUST AFTER TOKYO OPENING

The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened, buying dollars at around 147.65 yen, dealers said. They were unsure of the amount of the central bank's purchasing, but it seemed to prevent the dollar from weakening against the yen amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar opened at 147.65 yen against 147.20/30 in New York and 146.90 at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAID WILLING TO REVISE SALES TAX PLAN

Japanese press reports said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone has said he may compromise on his controversial sales tax plan, bowing to widespread opposition even within his own party. The reports said he told a meeting of supporters of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party today the proposed five pct tax should be amended if there was anything wrong with it. Officials were not immediately available for comment. Until now, Nakasone had vowed to press on with the tax as part of his plan to reform Japan's 36-year-old tax system. But most Japanese newspapers and news agencies quoted him as saying today he would not foist the tax on the Japanese people if they hated it. Opposition parties and some industry groups say the tax breaks Nakasone general election campaign promises last July and would discourage consumer spending, needed to meet government pledges to try to stimulate economic growth. Pressure for the tax to be amended or shelved is likely to increase soon, before a first round of local elections due on April 12, political analysts said. Resistance has spread from opposition parties and affected industries to the LDP. Some 36 of Japan's 47 provincial governments have called for the plan to be scrapped or handled carefully, government officials said. Some leading LDP candidates for the local polls have not asked Nakasone to make a campaign speech for them as they fear his presence would weaken their position in the elections. REUTER 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 2,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. They also reported rumors that Mexico may have purchased a sizeable quantity of Canadian flaxseed, although no price or shipment details were available. Reuter 
Tokyo stockmarket index rises 43.13 to record 22,410.85 closing high



CITIC TO ISSUE 30 BILLION YEN BOND IN TOKYO

The China International Trust and Investment Corp (CITIC) will issue a 30 billion yen, 10-year bond on April 23, Daiwa Securities said as lead manager. The samurai bond, to be signed on on April 14, will be the first since an Asian Development Bank issue in February. The coupon is expected to be around five pct, Daiwa said. The April Japanese government 10-year bond coupon has been set at 4.7 pct against five pct on the March bond. REUTER 
JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS

Japan should increase foreign access to its farm products market, while encouraging further development of domestic agriculture, a government report said. The white paper on agriculture for the year ended March 31 said active participation in writing world farm trade rules at the next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks will help prepare Japan to improve access. Agriculture Ministry sources said the paper marked an easing in Japan's tough position on agricultural imports which stressed the need for strict controls on some products to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Japan now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs, down from 61 pct some 20 years ago, official figures show. The paper said Japanese agriculture has been slow to improve productivity and demand/supply imbalances. The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainly responsible for higher domestic prices, it said. The strong yen has meant lower input material prices but has also resulted in higher agricultural imports which has worsened working conditions among part-time farmers, the paper said. This could make it difficult to improve the industry's structure, the paper said. To solve these problems and to reduce farm product prices to more reasonable levels, Japan should try to restructure the the agricultural sector to improve productivity and make it self-supporting, it said. REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA TO PAY MORE FOR JAPANESE ETHYLENE

South Korea will pay about 20 pct more for ethylene imported from Japan in the second quarter of the year because increased plastic production in both countries has boosted demand and tightened supplies, chemical industry sources said. South Korea has agreed to pay Japanese trading houses just over 400 dlrs C and F per tonne, up from an average of 350 dlrs in the first quarter and throughout 1986, they said. South Korean demand for imported ethylene this month has risen to 17,000 tonnes from 10,000 last month, and the country may face difficulties covering the extra volume, they said. <Korea Petrochemical Industries Corp>, a producer of high density polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene, will more than double its ethylene requirements to 9,000 tonnes a month from 4,000 when it completes a plant expansion at the end of this month, the sources said. <Honan Ethylene Corp's> import requirements have risen to 8,000 tonnes a month from 6,000 tonnes last year to meet strong demand from <Honan Petrochemical Co>, which makes HDPE and ethylene glycol, and <Hangyang Chemical>, which produces low-density polyethylene and vinyl chloride monomer, they said. But Japan's ethylene plants are already operating at almost full capacity of 4.5 mln tonnes a year just to fulfill domestic demand, the sources said. "And even if Japan had the additional ethylene, there is a logistical problem of finding extra appropriate-sized vessels to ship it to Korea," said one trading house source. Japanese trading companies are looking to alternative sources to supply South Korea's needs, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Mexico, they said. But long-haul voyages are expensive as the product has to be shipped at a temperature of minus 103 degrees centigrade to keep it in a liquid form, they said. Japan has no plans to invest further in the ethylene industry in order to cope with the additional demand, despite rising prices, trading house sources said. South Korea has two projects in hand which will increase its ethylene production capacity by 500,000 tonnes a year by the end of 1989, so the strong demand surge for imports is only a medium-term trend, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN ASKS BANKS TO CUT DOLLAR SALES - DEALERS

The Finance Ministry has asked Japanese commercial banks to moderate their dollar sales, bank dealers said. They said the Ministry had telephoned city and long-term banks earlier this week to make the request. One dealer said this was the first time the Ministry had made such a request to commercial banks. Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediate comment. Dealers said the Ministry has already asked institutional investors to reduce their sales of the dollar. REUTER 
JAPAN STUDY URGES FOREIGN ACCESS TO FARM MARKETS

Japan should increase foreign access to its farm products market, while encouraging further development of domestic agriculture, a government report said. The white paper on agriculture for the year ended March 31 said active participation in writing world farm trade rules at the next round of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks will help prepare Japan to improve access. Agriculture Ministry sources said the paper marked an easing in Japan's tough position on agricultural imports which stressed the need for strict controls on some products to maintain self-sufficiency in food. Japan now produces only 30 pct of its annual grain needs, down from 61 pct some 20 years ago, official figures show. The paper said Japanese agriculture has been slow to improve productivity and demand/supply imbalances. The relative shortage of farmland in Japan is mainly responsible for higher domestic prices, it said. The strong yen has meant lower input material prices but has also resulted in higher agricultural imports which has worsened working conditions among part-time farmers, the paper said. This could make it difficult to improve the industry's structure, the paper said. To solve these problems and to reduce farm product prices to more reasonable levels, Japan should try to restructure the the agricultural sector to improve productivity and make it self-supporting, it said. Reuter 
JAPANESE BANKS EXPAND HONG KONG PRESENCE

At a time when Britain is threatening to revoke the license of Japanese banks in retaliation for restrictive trade practices, Hong Kong is rolling out the welcome mat to Japan. The British colony last week issued a banking licence to the Bank of Fukuoka Ltd, making it the 24th Japanese bank here. Japan has the largest banking contingent in Hong Kong, followed by the U.S. With 22 banks. Eleven Japanese banks have representative offices here and Japanese institutions operate 34 deposit-taking companies (DTCs). Assistant banking commissioner K.K Wong told Reuters: "There are no special favours towards the Japanese...But because of Japan's strong economy and currency, they easily meet our requirement on assets (14 billion U.S. Dlrs)." The Japanese control the largest share of assets of the financial institutions here but incorporated elsewhere, with 980.5 billion H.K. Dlrs at end-1986, or 57.5 pct of the total. "Hong Kong authorities welcome Japanese banks," said Haruo Kimura, assistant general manager of the Bank of Tokyo. "But the U.S. And Britain are unhappy with the slow liberalisation of the Tokyo financial market." Japanese bankers said Hong Kong offers good business opportunities, especially in China trade, to Japanese banks who are following their clients' international expansion. "As their clients become more international, they have to keep up and follow them," said Yutaka Toda, Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank's general manager here. "We can have access to local traders and regional corporations," said Bank of Tokyo's Kimura. "We can also pick up business with China." Bankers said more Japanese banks are on the way. An influx of Japanese banks began in the late 1970s when the government lifted a moratorium on new licences. But newcomers are allowed one branch each and only the Bank of Tokyo, Sanwa Bank and Sumitomo Bank have more than one branch. Because of this limitation, Japanese banks have mostly concentrated on wholesale business. "It is very difficult to compete with those giants such as the Hongkong Bank and the Bank of China," said Kimura of the Bank of Tokyo. Bank of Tokyo has the largest Japanese bank network here with seven branches, while Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp and the Bank of China groups each have hundreds of branches. To broaden their client and deposit base, some Japanese banks have taken equity in local banks. The latest such move was Dai-Ichi Kangyo's increase of its stake in Chekiang First Bank last year to 95 pct from 33 pct. Tokai Bank, Fuji Bank and Mitsubishi Bank also have interests in small local banks. But Mitsubishi, not content with its single-branch licence and a 25 pct stake in the small Liu Chong Hing Bank, bought Mercantile Bank Ltd's multi-branch licence early this year. "We will open one more branch in (Hong Kong's district of) Kowloon soon, to better serve our clients on the other side of the harbour," said Mitsubishi Bank general manager Takeshi Tange. Their weakness in the retail market forces Japanese banks to rely on the interbank market for funding. Government data show that despite their large share of total assets, Japanese banks had only 54.4 billion dlrs in deposits at end-1986, or 17.1 pct of deposits of banks in Hong Kong incorporated elsewhere. "Most Japanese banks' international lendings in the region are booked in Hong Kong," said a Japanese banker who declined to be named. He said it is mainly for tax reasons, adding that assets such as loans booked in Hong Kong are not subject to Japanese tax. Japanese banks are barred by the Tokyo government from issuing Eurobonds, but their Hong Kong subsidiaries can tap the Euromarket and lend the funds to the parent. Bankers said this role could be undermined by a five pct capital adequacy ratio that goes into effect next year, requiring many DTC's to increase their capital. Many Japanese banks are seeking special treatment for their largely offshore operations or a different risk calculation for their assets. "I don't think this will stop them from coming here," said a banker. "But it may mean they have to conduct some of their offshore funding operations elsewhere." REUTER 
GERMAN, JAPANESE FIRMS WORK ON WASTE PLANT

Deutsche Babcock AG <DBCG.F> said it agreed to cooperate with BASF AG <BASF.F> and the Japanese firm Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd <KAWH.T>, KHI, in the field of technology designed to protect the environment. Deutsche Babcock Anlagen AG would work with BASF to develop plants which would treat and burn industrial waste. Another Babcock subsidary, Vereinigte Kesselwerke AG, VKW, had struck an accord with KHI which would later be transformed into a licencing agreement. The agreement with KHI involves construction and marketing by the Japanese company of an environmentally-safe system developed by VKW for burners in power station boilers, Deutsche Babcock said. No financial details of the cooperation were released. REUTER 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 4,000 to 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MIYAZAWA SEES BIG NATIONS REAFFIRMING PARIS PACT

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a parliamentary committee he expects major nations to reafffirm the currency pact they struck in Paris when they meet this week in Washington, political sources said. The Minister also was quoted as saying he expects major nations to take coordinated action to ensure exchange rate stability. Finance Ministry officials were unavailable for immediate comment. In Paris on February 22, six nations - Britain, Canada, France, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany - pledged to cooperate to hold their currencies stable. REUTER 
JAPAN MAKES SEAMLESS-PIPE DEALS WITH CHINA, USSR

Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd <SMIT.T> said it and four other firms jointly concluded negotiations to export a total of over 400,000 tonnes of seamless pipes in the six months to end-September to China and the Soviet Union. Export prices for that period for both countries were set 100 to 150 yen per tonne higher than previous contracted prices due to the yen's gains against the dollar, it said. Contracted export volume for China is likely to be over 200,000 tonnes against 350,000 for Oct 1986-March 1987, and 420,000 for April-Sept 1986, and for the Soviet Union over 200,000 tonnes. No direct Soviet comparison was available. REUTER 
OIL PRICES SEEN HOLDING STEADY IN SECOND QUARTER

Japanese oil traders generally expect oil prices to remain steady through June, when the next Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' (Opec) meeting is scheduled to take place. Prices have kept to a narrow trading range for more than a month, despite coming under considerable pressure in February as Japanese oil companies holding high oil stocks strongly resist paying official prices, trade sources said. Despite these attempts, spot crude rose steadily to stabilize around OPEC's 18 dlr a barrel target, they said. Spot prices fell more than two dlrs during the month, mainly on market assumptions Opec was producing more than its 15.8 mln barrel a day (bpd) self-imposed ceiling and members would submit to pressure to discount prices, oil traders said. However, Opec's discipline in holding its price and output targets eventually forced many of the buyers back, they said. Countries such as Qatar, Iran and Iraq refused to bend to demands for lower prices in spite of threats of non-lifting from Japanese buyers. The solidarity of Opec encouraged Qatar to charter vessels to store its production rather than cut its prices, they said. Opec's March production was 14.6 mln bpd, 1.2 mln below its ceiling, with Saudi Arabia's output just below 3.0 mln bpd compared to its Opec quota of 4.133 mln bpd, the Middle East Economic Survey estimated. "Of course there was a little cheating but not enough to destroy the market," an oil trader in Tokyo said. Opec crudes have been appearing on the spot market at discounted prices through barter deals and the swapping of Middle East grades for North Sea cargoes, but these trades have not generated sufficient volume to depress the market, he said. The current spot values of Middle East grades are only 20 to 25 cts below official prices, so resistance to buying crude under term contracts in the second quarter is likely to be weaker, traders said. Indonesia's Minister of Energy and Mines Subroto said today OPEC faces the choice of either maintaining present output volume at 15.8 mln bpd and seeing prices increase slightly, or raising the production ceiling so members can produce more in the third and fourth quarters of 1987. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS TO URGE GOVERNMENT TO SPUR ECONOMY

A top Japanese businessman said the country's four largest economic organizations will soon present to the government a set of proposals to expand domestic demand. Eishiro Saito, Chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), told a news conference the government should draw up a package of economic measures totalling more than 5,000 billion yen. Saito said the government's package should include plans to remove residual import restrictions on agricultural products and to lift tariffs on industrial products. Leading industrialised countries should also step up concerted market intervention to stabilize exchange rates, Saito said. The measures will be presented to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone as a joint proposal of Keidanren, the Japan Federation of Employers' Association, the Japan Committee for Economic Development and the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Saito said Japan should stop paying only lip service to its pledges to open its markets. The proposed measures should be undertaken by increased fiscal spending, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON

The Bank of Japan intervened in early afternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against active selling by institutional investors and speculative selling by overseas operators, dealers said. The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen in morning trade. The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading began in the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealers said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23

Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago. The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. REUTER 
JAPAN'S LIPC TO BUY BEEF ON APRIL 23

Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system, against 6,813 a year ago. The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at 93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87. REUTER 
PAKISTAN FIRM RAISES THREE BILLION YEN IN JAPAN

The National Development Finance Corp of Pakistan has raised three billion yen through private placement, arranger Daiwa Securities Co Ltd said. The seven year "Shibosai" issue in the Tokyo domestic market carries interest at 6.9 pct. No other details were available. REUTER 
CHRYSLER CANADA IMPORTS THAI-MADE MITSUBISHI CARS

<Chrysler Canada Ltd> said it signed an agreement to import 100,000 Mitsubishi small cars from <MMC Sittipol Co Ltd> of Thailand between 1988 and 1993. Chrysler Canada, a subsidiary of Chrysler Motors Corp <C> of the U.S., Will market the two and four-door cars in Canada under the Dodge-Colt brand. The cars will be Thailand's first car exports. MMC Sittipol is a Thai-Japanese joint venture in which Mitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> of Japan holds an estimated 47 pct stake. Its Thai partners are <Sittipol Motor Co> and <United Development Motor Industries Co Ltd>. Officials of MMC Sittipol said Chrysler Canada currently buys the same Dodge-Colt models from Japan where the strong yen has sharply increased their production costs. They said Chrysler will from next year import the same cars from Japan and Thailand which has a lower labour cost advantage. The officials said Mitsubishi's decision to move its production to Thailand also stemmed from the fact that Japan is facing auto export quota restrictions to the Canadian market. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SHORTLY AFTER TOKYO OPENS

The Bank of Japan bought a small amount of dollars at around 145.95 yen shortly after the Tokyo market opened, dealers said. But the dollar then fell on speculative selling by trading houses, they said. The dollar had opened here at 145.95 yen against 145.85/90 yen in New York and 146.00 yen at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell tomorrow a total of 800 billion yen worth of financing bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 1,300 billion yen, money traders said. Of the total, 400 billion yen will yield 3.8502 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in a 41-day repurchase accord maturing on May 19. Another 400 billion yen will yield 3.7991 pct in a 20-day repurchase pact maturing on April 28, they said. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.8125 pct one-month, and 3.7500 pct three-week commercial bill discount rates today. Tomorrow's surplus is attributable to government tax allocations to local governments and public entities. The operation will put outstanding bill supply at about 4,300 billion yen, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTERNOON

The Bank of Japan intervened in early afternoon Tokyo trading to support the dollar against active selling by institutional investors and speculative selling by overseas operators, dealers said. The central bank had also bought dollars against the yen in morning trade. The dollar traded around 145.20/30 yen when trading began in the afternoon here and weakened only slightly, the dealers said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 224 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 224 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 850 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 800 mln. The central bank bought bank bills comprising 27 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 21 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 171 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. It also purchased three mln stg of treasury bills and two mln stg of local authority bills in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 
Bank of Japan buys dollars shortly after opening at around 145.30 yen -- dealers



BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING

The Bank of Japan bought a small amount of dollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealers said. The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading house sold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar was also supported by a major electrical consumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer at around 145.25 yen, they added. The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in New York and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
JAPAN RUBBER STOCKS FALL IN MARCH

Japan's rubber stocks fell to 44,980 tonnes in March from 46,198 in February and from 53,784 in March 1986, the Japan Rubber Trade Association said. The stocks (in tonnes), with February and year-earlier comparisons, were - March 87 Feb 87 March 86 Crude Rubber 41,536 42,094 49,551 Synthetic 3,334 3,978 4,044 Latex 110 126 189 REUTER 
NIPPON MINING LOWERS COPPER PRICE

Nippon Mining Co Ltd said it lowered its selling price for electrolytic copper by 10,000 yen per tonne to 260,000, effective immediately. REUTER 
SHARP CORP <SHRP.T> TO SET UP PLANT IN THAILAND

Sharp Corp will set up a 100 pct-owned subsidiary in Thailand to make microwave ovens and refrigerators for export to the U.S. And western Europe, a company spokesman said. The company, to be named <Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd>, will be capitalised at 2.1 billion yen and start operations in October, he told Reuters. Sharp hopes the subsidiary, which will use parts from Japan and southeast Asia, will eventually produce other electric appliances, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO REVISE LONG-TERM ENERGY DEMAND DOWNWARDS

The Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) will revise its long-term energy supply/demand outlook by August to meet a forecast downtrend in Japanese energy demand, ministry officials said. MITI is expected to lower the projection for primary energy supplies in the year 2000 to 550 mln kilolitres (kl) from 600 mln, they said. The decision follows the emergence of structural changes in Japanese industry following the rise in the value of the yen and a decline in domestic electric power demand. MITI is planning to work out a revised energy supply/demand outlook through deliberations of committee meetings of the Agency of Natural Resources and Energy, the officials said. They said MITI will also review the breakdown of energy supply sources, including oil, nuclear, coal and natural gas. Nuclear energy provided the bulk of Japan's electric power in the fiscal year ended March 31, supplying an estimated 27 pct on a kilowatt/hour basis, followed by oil (23 pct) and liquefied natural gas (21 pct), they noted. REUTER 
NISSAN MAY SUPPLY PARTS TO MEXICAN FORD, CHRYSLER

Nissan Motor Co Ltd <NSAN.T> is negotiating the supply of car components to Mexican units of Ford Motor Co <F> and Chrysler Corp <C>, a Nissan spokeswoman said. <Nissan Mexicana SA de CV> is owned 96.4 pct by Nissan and 3.6 pct by Marubeni Corp <MART.T>. It expects to win orders for precision casting parts for engines, and aluminium cases for automatic transmissions. These will supply output of 70,000 mid-size cars a year at Chrysler's Mexican unit, the spokeswoman said. Nissan is negotiating a similar deal to supply Ford's Mexican unit with precision casting parts for car engines, the spokeswoman said, without providing further details. The company is expected to reach agreements with both U.S. Car makers sometime this year, she said. Nissan Mexicana will invest about 400 mln yen to improve production facilities after the agreements are signed, she said. REUTER 
THAI ZINC EXPORTS FALL IN MARCH

Thai zinc ingot exports fell to 882 tonnes in March from 1,764 in February and 3,008 in March 1986, the Mineral Resources Department said. A spokesman for Padaeng Industry Co Ltd, the country's sole exporter, attributed the decline to the company's lower stocks, which averaged 5,000 tonnes in the first quarter against 16,000 tonnes in late 1985 when it began exporting. The department said major buyers included China, Japan, the Philippines, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. Thailand exported 4,842 tonnes of zinc ingots during the first quarter, down from 14,937 a year ago. REUTER 
JAPAN TO HOLD FORMAL FINANCIAL TALKS WITH FRANCE

The Japanese Finance Ministry said it plans to hold formal financial talks with France on April 17 in Tokyo, the second such meeting after a first session in May last year. The agenda has not yet been decided. The Japanese side will be headed by Toyoo Gyohten, Vice Finance Minister for International Affairs, while the French delegation will include Daniel Lebegue, Director General of the Treasury. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES SOON AFTER TOKYO OPENING

The Bank of Japan bought a small amount of dollars shortly after the opening at around 145.30 yen, dealers said. The central bank intervened as a medium-sized trading house sold dollars, putting pressure on the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar was also supported by a major electrical consumer goods company, which was a speculative dollar buyer at around 145.25 yen, they added. The dollar opened at 145.33 yen against 145.60/70 in New York and 145.25 at the close here yesterday. REUTER 
PHILADELPHIA SEES CURRENCY OPTIONS TRADE IN ASIA

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange will soon open offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo to help boost Far Eastern participation in foreign currency options before it starts evening trading in four or five months time, exchange president Nicholas Giordano told reporters. Japanese institutions are already major players in foreign currency options traded in Philadelphia, using subsidiaries or agents to trade during the current daytime session. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 4,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 4,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for last half May/first half June shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
SHOWA DENKO EXPORTS ALUMINIUM CASTING EQUIPMENT

<Showa Denko Ltd> said it is exporting aluminium billet casting equipment and technology to countries that have recently begun aluminium smelting. A company official said it won a 500 mln yen order to deliver 10 sets of casting equipment to Venezuela's Venalum by end-1987. He said it received an order for one set from Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. Last year and expects further orders from the Bahrain smelter. Showa Denko withdrew from smelting last year but expects to increase its sales of equipment and technology, he said. REUTER 
MEMBERS OF JAPAN'S RULING PARTY SHUN NAKASONE

Members of prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have shunned his support in their campaigns for upcoming local elections. "His presence will do more harm than good," an LDP candidate in Tokyo told Reuters. The candidate is one of several conservatives who have rebelled and joined the public outcry against Nakasone's proposal for a five pct sales tax. Political analysts said Nakasone might have to step down before the Venice summit of industrial democracies on June 8-10 if the LDP lost too many major local seats. Nakasone's popularity has dropped sharply since he led his party to its greatest-ever election victory last July, and analysts said the proposed tax was one reason for the decline. Over 2,500 local seats will be filled during two rounds of polling. The first round is on Sunday, the second on April 26. Political analysts said a seat to watch would be the governorship of Fukuoka, southern Japan. The LDP and two centre parties are challenging the incumbent governor, Hachiji Okuda, who is supported by the opposition socialist and communist parties. The proposed tax is a key campaign issue. "The LDP and the centrist parties should have about 1,350,000 votes against 700,000 for Okuda. But Okuda is the incumbent and has the sales tax weapon," said Rei Shiratori, professor of political science at Dokkyo University. "Nakasone will serve out his term to the end of October if the LDP wins in Fukuoka," he said. Analysts believe the opposition is likely to win the governorship of the northern island of Hokkaido. But Kenzo Uchida, professor of political science at Hosei University, said, "Nakasone can afford to get fairly tough if the LDP loses only in Hokkaido." The opposition parties are campaigning to scrap the sales tax proposal. The tax is one of the main pillars of Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system, which has remained unchanged for 36 years. It is also a key element in plans to boost Japanese domestic demand and cut back on exports. Without the tax revenue the government would have less to spend on stimulating the economy. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD IS WORRYING

The leaders of two of Japan's top business groups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7) accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern to Japan because it shows the major industrial nations regard the yen's current level as appropriate. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is well above adequate levels. He did not elaborate. Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yen from rising further. "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates as the yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishihara said. G-7 members Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany said in a statement they consider their currencies are now within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals. Saito called on each G-7 member nation to prepare to intervene in the market strongly enough to ensure exchange rates are stabilised at appropriate levels. REUTER 
MALAYSIA SEEKS 42 BILLION YEN PIPELINE LOAN

Malaysia has asked Japan for a 42 billion yen 25-year loan to finance the construction of gas pipelines from eastern Trengganu to southern Johor, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) said. OECF's chief representative, Takashi Matsuya, told reporters the Japanese Government is appraising the loan. Another OECF official told Reuters Japan is likely to approve the loan because "it is technically and economically viable." If approved, the loan would carry a coupon rate of four pct, a grace period of seven years, Matsuya said. It would be disbursed over three years, he added. The pipeline contruction is the second phase of the Peninsular Gas Utilisation Project by Petronas, Malaysia's national oil company. The first phase was the supply of gas to households in and around the eastern oil town of Kertih. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of Japan bought a modest amount of dollars at around 145.10 yen just after the market here opened, dealers said. Just before the opening, the dollar dropped swiftly as speculators concluded the Group of Seven (G-7) comminuique issued in Washington contained nothing basically new, they said. It fell about a half yen, to around 145. The G-7 reaffirmed that their currencies around current levels reflect economic fundamentals. One dealer said the Bank of Japan probably intervened in Australia before the opening here, but could not confirm this. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD IS WORRYING

The leaders of two of Japan's top business groups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7) accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern to Japan because it shows the major industrial nations regard the yen's current level as appropriate. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is well above adequate levels. He did not elaborate. Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yen from rising further. "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates as the yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishihara said. G-7 members Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany said in a statement they consider their currencies are now within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals. Saito called on each G-7 member nation to prepare to intervene in the market strongly enough to ensure exchange rates are stabilised at appropriate levels. REUTER 
JAPAN BUSINESS LEADERS SAY G-7 ACCORD WORRYING

The leaders of two of Japan's top business groups said in separate statements the Group of Seven (G-7) accord reached in Washington yesterday is of deep concern to Japan because it shows the major industrial nations regard the yen's current level as appropriate. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organizations (Keidanren), said the yen's present rate is well above adequate levels. He did not elaborate. Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said the accord will not prevent the yen from rising further. "We do not understand why the G-7 approved present rates as the yen has risen excessively since the Paris accord," Ishihara said. Reuter 
LAWSON SAYS IT ESSENTIAL THAT JAPAN DEVELOP DOMESTIC DEMAND



JAPAN BUYS 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 5,000 tonnes Canadian rapeseed overnight at an undisclosed price for May shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MEMBERS OF JAPAN'S RULING PARTY SHUN NAKASONE

Members of prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) have shunned his support in their campaigns for upcoming local elections. "His presence will do more harm than good," an LDP candidate in Tokyo told Reuters. The candidate is one of several conservatives who have rebelled and joined the public outcry against Nakasone's proposal for a five pct sales tax. Political analysts said Nakasone might have to step down before the Venice summit of industrial democracies on June 8-10 if the LDP lost too many major local seats. Nakasone's popularity has dropped sharply since he led his party to its greatest-ever election victory last July, and analysts said the proposed tax was one reason for the decline. Over 2,500 local seats will be filled during two rounds of polling. The first round is on Sunday, the second on April 26. Political analysts said a seat to watch would be the governorship of Fukuoka, southern Japan. The LDP and two centre parties are challenging the incumbent governor, Hachiji Okuda, who is supported by the opposition socialist and communist parties. The proposed tax is a key campaign issue. "The LDP and the centrist parties should have about 1,350,000 votes against 700,000 for Okuda. But Okuda is the incumbent and has the sales tax weapon," said Rei Shiratori, professor of political science at Dokkyo University. "Nakasone will serve out his term to the end of October if the LDP wins in Fukuoka," he said. Analysts believe the opposition is likely to win the governorship of the northern island of Hokkaido. But Kenzo Uchida, professor of political science at Hosei University, said, "Nakasone can afford to get fairly tough if the LDP loses only in Hokkaido." The opposition parties are campaigning to scrap the sales tax proposal. The tax is one of the main pillars of Nakasone's plan to overhaul the tax system, which has remained unchanged for 36 years. It is also a key element in plans to boost Japanese domestic demand and cut back on exports. Without the tax revenue the government would have less to spend on stimulating the economy. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO BUY DOLLARS AROUND 143.70 YEN - DEALERS



DOLLAR OPENS AT RECORD TOKYO LOW 143.75 YEN (PREVIOUS RECORD 144.70) - DEALERS



DOLLAR OPENS AT TOKYO RECORD LOW OF 143.75 YEN

The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 143.75 yen despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention, dealers said. The previous record low was 144.70 yen set on March 30. The opening compares with 143.90/144.00 yen at the close in New York. The central bank bought dollars through Tokyo brokers just before and after the market opening, the dealers said. The intervention took place when the dollar fell to 143.20 yen, one dealer said. The dollar opened at 1.8155/60 marks against 1.8187/97 in New York. The dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen despite central bank intervention at 143.00 yen, dealers said. Selling pressure was strong from securities houses and institutional investors in hectic and nervous trading on underlying bearish sentiment for the dollar, they said. Most dealers were surpised by the dollar's sharp fall against the yen in New York, although many had expected such a drop to happen eventually. Institutional investors are expected to sell the dollar aggressively if it rises to around 143.50 yen, dealers said. The U.S. Currency steadied well above 143.00 yen after Bank of Japan intervention and scattered short-covering, they said. The dollar opened at 1.5120/30 Swiss francs against 1.5085/00 at the New York close. Sterling started at 1.6190/00 dlrs against 1.6195/05. REUTER 
DOLLAR FALLS BELOW 143 YEN IN TOKYO

The dollar fell below 143 yen in hectic early Tokyo trading despite aggressive Bank of Japan intervention, dealers said. After opening at a Tokyo low of 143.75 yen, the dollar fell as low as 142.90 yen on heavy selling led by securities firms and institutional investors, they said. REUTER 
STOCKS PLUNGE IN EARLY TOKYO TRADE

Share prices plunged in early trade as an opening foreign exchange record low of 143.75 yen to the dollar and a weak stockmarket in New York withered investors' confidence, brokers said. After 32 minutes' trade, the average plummetted 313.00 to 22,609.20. Yesterday the market gained 9.21 to a record close. Brokers said the dollar's fall against the yen prompted a large selloff of export-related shares. But fears had spread throughout the market, depressing almost all issues. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA TO HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE LATER TODAY

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa is expected to hold a press conference later today after returning from Washington, a ministry spokesman told Reuters. Miyazawa is scheduled to arrive at 4.15 P.M. (0715 GMT) in Tokyo. The earliest time for the press conference would be 6.30 P.M. (0930 GMT). The minister attended a meeting of the Group of Seven (G-7) and other international monetary conferences in Washington. The G-7 -- Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. And West Germany -- reaffirmed that current exchange rates are in line with economic fundamentals. REUTER 
AVERAGE YEN CD RATES FALL IN LATEST WEEK

Average interest rates on yen certificates of deposit (CD) fell to 4.13 pct in the week ended April 8 from 4.33 pct the previous week, the Bank of Japan said. New rates (previous in brackets) - Average CD rates all banks 4.13 pct (4.33) Money Market Certificate (MMC) ceiling rates for week starting from April 13 - 3.38 pct (3.58) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks - Less than 60 days 4.15 pct (4.41) 60-90 days 4.14 pct (4.29) Average CD rates of city, trust and long-term banks - 90-120 days 4.12 pct (4.25) 120-150 days 4.12 pct (4.23) 150-180 days unquoted (4.03) 180-270 days 4.05 pct (4.05) Over 270 days 4.05 pct (unqtd) Average yen bankers acceptance rates of city, trust and long-term banks - 30 to less than 60 days 3.98 pct (4.20) 60-90 days 4.03 pct (3.97) 90-120 days unquoted (unqtd) REUTER 
JAPAN SEES MARGINAL RISE IN EDIBLE OIL DEMAND

The Agriculture Ministry estimates Japan's edible oil demand will rise 1.5 pct in calendar 1987 to 1.68 mln tonnes from 1.65 mln in 1986. Domestic consumption will rise to 1.66 mln tonnes in 1987 from 1.64 mln in 1986, while imports will rise to 77,000 tonnes from 70,000 and exports will be unchanged at 14,000. Edible oil supplies will total 1.75 mln tonnes in 1987 against 1.73 mln last year, including domestic output of 1.60 mln against 1.55 mln. Domestic supplies will comprise 725,000 of soybean oil (706,000 in 1986), 638,000 of rapeseed oil (609,000) and 235,000 of other origin oils (231,000). REUTER 
TOKYO STOCKMARKET INDEX PLUNGES 427.48 TO 22,789.11 AT 1343 LOCAL TIME - BROKERS



TOKYO STOCKS PLUNGE IN MIDDAY TRADE

Tokyo's stockmarket index plunged sharply at the start of afternoon trade as investors took profits from last week's four straight record closes, brokers said. The market index fell 427.48 points to 22,789.11 only 13 minutes after afternoon trading began at 13:30 local time. Brokers said concern over weekend announcements of mounting trade tension with Europe and the U.S. Sparked the heavy selloff. The average had risen 630.48 points in the last four trading sessions of last week. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN ACTIVELY BUYING DOLLARS AT AROUND 142.20 YEN IN TOKYO - DEALERS



JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan actively bought dollars here in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealers said. The central bank had placed buy orders at that level and prevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses, they said. However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currency significantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added. The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30 yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER 
NAKASONE'S PARTY SUFFERS SETBACKS IN LOCAL POLLS

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular plan to introduce a sales tax caused an electoral setback for his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in Sunday's local elections, political analysts said. The LDP retained its 11 prefectural governorships, but failed to restore a governorship in Fukuoka it had placed much importance on winning. In the prefectural assembly elections to fill 2,670 seats, the LDP has so far lost 92 of its previously held 1,487 seats to the socialists and communists. Full election results should be available later today. Discussing the election results with reporters, Nakasone said, "I wouldn't say the proposed five pct sales tax had no effect at all, but there were other factors, such as a low turnout and unusually cold weather." The Home Affairs Ministry said the average turnout for the 13 gubernatorial elections was a record low 59.78 pct while the prefectural assembly polls drew an average of 66.66 pct, also a record low. Noboru Goto, president of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry and a longtime friend of Nakasone, told reporters the impact of the sales tax on the LDP's setback was obvious. "The government should take action (on the sales tax) in regard to the people's wishes," Goto said. Nakasone and other LDP leaders have already hinted at a delay in the implementation of the tax, which had been scheduled for next January, and a possible cut in the rate. "The most important thing now is to get parliamentary approval of the budget as soon as possible to arrest a rapid appreciation of the yen," Nakasone said. "We must implement measures to prop up the economy." Opposition parties said the elections were a referendum on the tax and they will continue to demand its retraction. REUTER 
EC COULD DECIDE ON JAPAN TRADE MOVES IN LATE MAY

The European Community (EC) has effectively given Japan six weeks to take moves to open its market to imports before it decides on possible tough retaliatory trade measures, EC diplomats said. They said EC foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26 to review the state of trade relations between the two sides. The EC executive commission was asked by representatives of member states on Friday to propose a renunciation of some EC pledges to the world trade body, GATT, unless there are "adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market." Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposing stiff increases in duties, or quantitative limits, on Japanese exports. The diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would be discussed in detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministers on April 27 and 28 in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepare proposals for possible retaliatory action. They said the commission has powers to take some limited action before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japanese exports of electrical, photographic and other goods being diverted to Europe in the wake of possible U.S. Tariff moves. In May, the ministers are also likely to discuss how to prevent Japan from getting an extra trading advantage as a result of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc, which obliges them gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial goods. Meanwhile, Japan's trade surplus with the Community has grown steadily, registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 800 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 800 billion yen in deficit financing bills today through 51-day repurchase agreements maturing June 3 to help absorb a projected money market surplus, money traders said. The operation will raise the outstanding supply of the bills to a record 4,800 billion yen. The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses from money houses will be 3.8999 pct compared with the two-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8750 pct and the two-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.13/00 pct. The traders estimated the surplus today at about 1,800 billion yen. They said it is mainly due to 1,300 billion yen of government tax allocations to local governments and public entities and to excessive banking system cash holdings due to continuous large central bank dollar purchases. REUTER 
NAKASONE'S PARTY SUFFERS SETBACKS IN LOCAL POLLS

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular plan to introduce a sales tax caused an electoral setback for his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) in Sunday's local elections, political analysts said. The LDP retained its 11 prefectural governorships, but failed to restore a governorship in Fukuoka it had placed much importance on winning. In the prefectural assembly elections to fill 2,670 seats, the LDP has so far lost 92 of its previously held 1,487 seats to the socialists and communists. Full election results should be available later today. Discussing the election results with reporters, Nakasone said, "I wouldn't say the proposed five pct sales tax had no effect at all, but there were other factors, such as a low turnout and unusually cold weather." The Home Affairs Ministry said the average turnout for the 13 gubernatorial elections was a record low 59.78 pct while the prefectural assembly polls drew an average of 66.66 pct, also a record low. Noboru Goto, president of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry and a longtime friend of Nakasone, told reporters the impact of the sales tax on the LDP's setback was obvious. "The government should take action (on the sales tax) in regard to the people's wishes," Goto said. Nakasone and other LDP leaders have already hinted at a delay in the implementation of the tax, which had been scheduled for next January, and a possible cut in the rate. "The most important thing now is to get parliamentary approval of the budget as soon as possible to arrest a rapid appreciation of the yen," Nakasone said. "We must implement measures to prop up the economy." Opposition parties said the elections were a referendum on the tax and they will continue to demand its retraction. REUTER 
JAPAN CENTRAL BANK ACTIVELY BUYS DOLLARS IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan actively bought dollars here in early afternoon trade at around 142.20 yen, dealers said. The central bank had placed buy orders at that level and prevented the dollar from falling when it came under heavy selling pressure from investment trusts and trading houses, they said. However, the intervention failed to boost the U.S. Currency significantly from the 142.20 yen level, they added. The dollar was trading around its midday rate of 142.30 yen. It had opened here at 141.85 yen. REUTER 
FURTHER WEAKNESS SEEN IN TOKYO STOCKS IN NEAR TERM

Tokyo share prices are expected to weaken further for about a week, following a sharp drop which at one time today saw the Nikkei Dow index down 571.01 points in mid-afternoon trading, brokers said. They said uncertainty caused by disputes between Japan and its main trading partners will continue to deter investors from equities. The market index, which closed the day 297.05 points down at 22,919.54, will probably end the present downturn at around 22,300 points, brokers predicted. "This is just a short-term correction and the market will probably end up at about 22,300 in about a week's time," said a broker at Nomura Securities Co. He said that today's late recovery from afternoon lows showed that investors were still hunting bargains in anticipation of an upturn. Brokers reiterated expectations of an imminent cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate, a factor seen to be diverting money from bank accounts into stocks and boosting the market. Securities company, bank and insurance issues, likely to benefit from a rate cut, were bought in late trading. The Nomura broker said he expects the rate cut in May or June, after Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's scheduled visit to Washington on April 29. Nakasone is expected to seek an end to Japanese-U.S. Trade disputes which are hurting investor confidence. "Until we see some concerted effort by the Japanese to halt the yen's rise against the dollar and settle trade disputes, the market will stay low," said head of equities at Jardine Fleming Securities Co, Mario Malt. Malt said current talks between the countries were inflammatory and damaged stockmarket optimism. Brokers also said that Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party has to show it still rules, after Sunday's nationwide local elections showed dwindling support. "It raises doubts on whether the LDP can push through the reforms it planned for this year," said one broker. Top policy priorities this year are deregulation of financial activities, stimulation of domestic demand to boost imports and removal of agricultural subsidies. If these policies are abandoned or scaled down, stockmarket investors will have few reasons to buy stocks, brokers said. REUTER 
TRADE ISSUES STRAINING EC'S PATIENCE WITH JAPAN

Member states of the European Community are starting to run out of patience with Japan which they believe has repeatedly promised major initiatives to open its market to imports, but as often made only minor moves. Diplomatic sources here said several recent actions by EC countries bear witness to a new disillusionment with the willingness, or at least the ability, of the Japanese government to reduce its massive trade surplus with the EC. However, they said an all-out trade war may be far off, as EC states know they would suffer almost as much as Japan. Senior EC diplomats gave a generally favourable reaction to an EC executive commission proposal under which the EC could raise tariffs on a range of Japanese products if the U.S. Carries out a threat to make a similar move on April 17. The EC tariffs, which would involve renouncing obligations entered into with the world trade body GATT, would be designed to stop a diversion of exports to the EC market from that of the U.S. The diplomats were meeting as Tokyo announced that the EC's trade deficit with Japan reached a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March, up from 1.94 billion in February. Reuter 
EC COULD DECIDE ON JAPAN TRADE MOVES IN LATE MAY

The European Community (EC) has effectively given Japan six weeks to take moves to open its market to imports before it decides on possible tough retaliatory trade measures, EC diplomats said. They said EC foreign ministers will meet on May 25 and 26 to review the state of trade relations between the two sides. The EC executive commission was asked by representatives of member states on Friday to propose a renunciation of some EC pledges to the world trade body, GATT, unless there are "adequate and early measures to open the Japanese market." Such a renunciation would be the first step to imposing stiff increases in duties, or quantitative limits, on Japanese exports. The diplomats said it was unlikely that the issue would be discussed in detail at the next meeting of EC foreign ministers on April 27 and 28 in Luxembourg as time was needed to prepare proposals for possible retaliatory action. They said the commission has powers to take some limited action before getting ministerial approval to prevent Japanese exports of electrical, photographic and other goods being diverted to Europe following of possible U.S. Tariff moves. In May, the ministers are also likely to discuss how to prevent Japan from getting an extra trading advantage as a result of Spain and Portugal joining the bloc, which obliges them gradually to reduce tariffs on many industrial goods. Japan's trade surplus with the Community has grown steadily, registering a record 2.13 billion dlrs in March. Reuter 
JAPANESE CRUSHERS BUY CANADIAN RAPESEEED

Japanese crushers bought 3,000 to 4,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for last half May/first half June shipment, trade sources said. Reuter 
MORGAN STANLEY ISSUES WARRANTS INTO JAPANESE FIRM

Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Ltd is issuing 45,000 covered equity warrants exercisable into shares of Japan Synthetic Rubber Co Ltd at an issue price of 212 Swiss francs per warrant, lead manager Morgan Stanley SA said. The initial exercise price is 494 yen per share and final maturity is February 4, 1992. The issue price represents a premium of 6.57 pct over the stock's closing price of 653 yen. Each warrant is exercisable into 100 shares of common stock of Japan Synthetic Rubber. The exercise period is June 5, 1987 to February 4, 1992. REUTER 
MORGAN STANLEY ISSUES WARRANTS INTO JAPANESE FIRM

Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Ltd is issuing 45,000 covered equity warrants exercisable into shares of Japan Synthetic Rubber Co Ltd at an issue price of 212 Swiss francs per warrant, lead manager Morgan Stanley SA said. The initial exercise price is 494 yen per share and maturity is February 4, 1992. The issue price represents a premium of 6.57 pct over the stock's closing price of 653 yen. Each warrant is exercisable into 100 shares of common stock of Japan Synthetic Rubber. The exercise period is June 5, 1987 to February 4, 1992. REUTER 
Bank of Japan intervenes to support dollar after Tokyo opening, dealers



BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO AFTER OPENING

The Bank of Japan intervened in Tokyo to buy dollars just after the market opened, dealers said. The dollar opened at 142.05 yen against 142.15/25 in New York and 142.50 at the close here yesterday. The bank stepped into the market amid selling pressure from interbank dealers, dealers said. REUTER 
Japan March wholesale prices rise 0.2 pct (0.1 pct February drop) - official



Bank of Japan intervening to support dollar against yen, dealers



JAPAN MARCH MONEY SUPPLY RISES 9.0 PCT

Japan's broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificate of deposits (CD) rose a preliminary 9.0 pct in March from a year earlier, compared with an 8.8 pct rise in February, the Bank of Japan said. The seasonally adjusted March average of M-2 plus CDs rose 0.8 pct from February when it rose an identical 0.8 pct from a month earlier, it said. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs stood at an average 343,600 billion yen in March compared with 336,015 billion in February. REUTER 
SAUDI ARABIA WANTS TO INCREASE OIL SALES TO JAPAN

Saudi Arabia hopes to increase the volume of its oil exports to Japan through expanding bilateral trade, Saudi Arabian Interior Minister Naif bin Abdul-Aziz said. He told a Tokyo reception his country hopes to raise crude and products exports to Japan to earlier levels, but did not elaborate. To promote trade, Saudi Arabia is inviting Japanese industries to do business there, he said. Japanese firms now have long-term contracts to import a total of 150,000 barrels per day of Saudi crude. REUTER 
JAPAN'S LDP TO CALL FOR FLEXIBLE MONETARY POLICIES

Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) will call for adequate and flexible management of the nation's monetary polices in its plan to expand domestic demand, a senior LDP official told Reuters. Junichiro Koizumi, the head of the LDP committee working out the plan, said the phrase should not be taken as implying an immediate cut in Japan's 2.5 pct discount rate. "The LDP generally believes that there is no need for a further discount rate cut at the moment," he said. But Koizumi said the LDP does not rule out a rate cut if necessary in the future. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told a press conference on Wednesday that the central bank does not have any intention of easing credit conditions. REUTER 
JAPAN SEES HIGHER MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH THIS QUARTER

The Bank of Japan said it forecast Japan's broadly-defined M-2 money supply average plus certificates of deposit (CDs) will rise by about nine pct in the current April-June quarter against 8.5 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs rose a preliminary 8.8 pct in January/March 1987 compared with a nine pct rise a year earlier, it said. The bank said the forecast rise is due to an increase in floating deposits due to recent low interest rates and a shift to private banks from the Bank of Japan of 400-1,000 billion yen by the recently privatised Japanese Railways. REUTER 
SONY PLANS VIDEO AND TAPE PRODUCTION IN THAILAND

<Sony Corp> of Japan plans to launch a 15-mln-dlr project here soon to produce video and music cassette tapes mainly for export, Chira Phanupong, head of Thailand's Board of Investment, said. Chira told reporters Sony will likely receive investment tax incentives from his agency which is in charge of promoting foreign investment. The BoI chief said most small and medium Japanese firms view Thailand as the best country in South East Asia to which they could shift their high-cost production facilities in the wake of the strong yen. BoI officials said the number of new Japanese investment projects seeking promotional privileges from the Thai government increased substantially in the past year as the stronge yen forced more Japanese companies to look for cheaper production bases abroad. <Sharp Corp> recently also obtained BoI tax incentives to invest in a project here to produce microwave ovens and refrigerators for the Thai market and for export. Chira said a big Japanese electronic firm is negotiating with his agency for Thai tax incentives for its project to manufacture audio equipment and other electrical appliances here. He declined to name the Japanese company but said its proposed project will provide employment for 50,000 Thais in five years. REUTER 
NAKASONE'S SALES TAX PLAN SUFFERS ANOTHER DENT

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular sales tax plan suffered another dent today when members of his ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) called for time to be taken in dealing with the proposed sales tax, party officials said. The call came in a resolution adopted by a group of some 150 LDP parliamentarians and secretaries, acting on behalf of their parliamentarians, at a meeting at the LDP headquarters, they said. The MPs represented seemed to Account for one-third of LDP MPs. The group is an LDP voluntary organisation, called the Parliamentarians' Research Society for Reestablishment of Finances claiming a membership of about 300 MPs, they said. Meanwhle, Nakasone this evening hinted that his party might be ready to accept some modification to the five-pct sales tax proposal after the fiscal 1987 state budget plan was passed by parliament. The LDP suffered a setback in last Sunday's local elections because of the controvertial tax plan. The result also undermined Nakasone's prestige, giving rise to a possibility that he might be forced out of office before October 30, when he is supposed to step down. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN COAL EXPORTERS FACE TOUGH JAPAN TALKS

Australian coal industry sources said Japanese electricity utilities are demanding price cuts in annual coal contract negotiations underway in Tokyo. But the sources said they were unable to substantiate reports here that one of the largest steaming coal customers <Chugoku Electric Power Co Inc> threatened to stop taking deliveries until new prices are set. Coal exporters want to maintain last year's 32 U.S. Dlrs a tonne price, which expired at the end of Japan's fiscal year on March 31, while the Japanese want to pay no more than the 27-28 U.S. Dlrs secured with China and South Africa. Ross McKinnon, general manager of <Thiess Dampier Mitsui Coal Pty Ltd>, which annually exports about one mln tonnes of steaming coal to Japan, mainly to Chugoku, told Reuters he had not been informed of any refusal to take shipments. McKinnon said he could not recall when a Japanese contract had been settled before the previous one had expired, and said "controlled leaks" were commonplace during talks. But Australian foreign currency markets took the reports seriously enough for dealers to say it added nervousness to trading, with the local dollar settling on 0.7080 U.S. Cents at midsession against its 0.7120 opening. Coal was Australia's largest single export in the fiscal year ended June 30, 1986 with shipments reaching 90.49 mln tonnes worth 5.21 billion dlrs, or 15.9 pct of total exports. Japan is the largest customer for the crucial steaming coal sector and took 14.97 mln tonnes of total exports of 43.3 mln tonnes in calendar 1986. Sydney resources analyst Ian Story said the appreciation of the Australian dollar against the U.S. Currency meant steaming coal exporters were now receiving just 44.72 dlrs a tonne against 52.42 dlrs when last year's contract was negotiated. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN BUYS MODERATE DOLLAR SUM -- DEALERS

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market to try to accelerate the dollar's rise after heavy dollar buying by institutional investors, dealers said. The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars at around 142.10 yen, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN CAREFULLY WATCHING MARKETS, SUMITA SAYS

The Bank of Japan is carefully watching the recent rapid rise of the Tokyo stock and yen bond markets for their impact on inflation, governor Satoshi Sumita said. In a statement to the bank's regional branch managers, Sumita said the central bank was particularly monitoring the markets because of the recent rapid growth of money supply. He said he is also carefully watching real estate prices. Sumita said he expects money supply growth to remain high from April through June. In March, money supply, as measured by M-2 plus certificates of deposit, rose at a year-on-year rate of nine pct. REUTER 
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND TRADE, OUTPUT

North Korea unveiled plans to boost industrial and agricultural production sharply over the next seven years and to greatly expand its foreign trade. Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People's Assembly in Pyongyang that North Korea intends to increase international trade by 220 pct in the period 1987/93, gross industrial output by 90 pct and agricultural production by 40 pct, according to the North Korean Central News Agency, monitored here. REUTER 
NORTH KOREA PLANS TO EXPAND OUTPUT AND TRADE

North Korea unveiled plans to boost industrial and agricultural production over the next seven years and to greatly expand trade with other nations, the official North Korean Central News Agency, monitored in Tokyo, reported. Prime Minister Li Gun-mo told the eighth Supreme People's Assembly in Pyongyang agricultural production will rise 1.4 times in the period of the new seven-year plan, the agency said. "For a more satisfactory solution of the problem of food, clothing and housing for the people, a 15 mln tonne target of grain will be hit...And 1.5 billion metres of textiles will be produced annually," he said. Annual output of non-ferrous metals will be lifted to more than 1.7 mln tonnes in the seven year plan, the agency quoted Li as saying. During the previous seven-year plan North Korea achieved annual output of 10 mln tonnes of grain. Chemical fertilizer production hit an annual target of five mln tonnes. He did not provide any other figures. REUTER 
GATT TO PROBE JAPAN'S FARM IMPORT RESTRICTIONS

The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) will begin a probe on May 7-8 on the legality of Japanese import restrictions on 12 farm products, Agriculture Ministry officials said. The investigation, which will take place in Geneva, follows a U.S. Complaint last year that the restrictions violated GATT rules prohibiting import quotas. The products involved include fruit juice, peanuts and tomato juice. Reuter 
JAPAN SEES NEED TO ACT QUICKLY ON TRADE CRISIS

Japan is faced with a mounting crisis over its huge trade surplus and recognizes that it must act more quickly to refocus its export driven economy, a senior Foreign Ministry official said. "The sense of crisis among the Japanese public as well as the government is increasing," Deputy Director General Hiroshi Hirabayashi told reporters. "The need to accelerate the efforts (to restructure the economy) is well recognized." Hirabayashi said that gradual progress had been made to refocus the Japanese economy, but admitted that it might not seem all that spectacular to foreign observers. Difficulties had been encountered in implementing the so-called Maekawa report since it was unveiled a year ago, he said. But, he added, foreign governments should appreciate the efforts that have been made. The report, named for its principal author, former Bank of Japan governor Haruo Maekawa, called for a shift in Japan's economy away from its dependence on exports for growth. The Japanese cabinet today reviewed progress made since its release. According to Hirabayashi, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone told his fellow ministers that Japan must follow the direction set out by Maekawa and urged them to make efforts to achieve it. Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari added that not enough had been done to publicize the action Japan was taking to refocus its economy. Listing some of those actions, Hirabayashi said imports of manufactured goods have increased, interest rates have fallen, and coal, steel and non-ferrous metal output have been reduced. He expressed hope that Japan will act more quickly in the future to implement the report and scoffed at a suggestion that it would take ten years for Maekawa's goals to be met. "It will not take very much time to fulfill the (goals) set out by the Maekawa report," he said. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 4,000 TONNES OF CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japan bought 4,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for last-half May/first-half June shipment, nearly completing buying for May needs, trade sources said. Price details were not available. Reuter 
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO EASE CREDIT - OFFICIALS

The Bank of Japan does not intend to ease credit policy further, bank officials told Reuters. They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond market that the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate soon, possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29. Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka, western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, making a rate cut announcement early next week a virtual impossibility, they said. April 29 is a holiday here. REUTER 
JAPANESE BUYERS ACCEPT CUBA SUGAR DELAY - TRADERS

Several Japanese buyers have accepted postponement of between 150,000 and 200,000 tonnes of Cuban raw sugar scheduled for delivery in calendar 1987 until next year following a request from Cuba, trade sources said. Cuba had sought delays for some 300,000 tonnes of deliveries, they said. It made a similar request in January when Japanese buyers agreed to postpone some 200,000 tonnes of sugar deliveries for 1987 until 1988. Some buyers rejected the Cuban request because they have already sold the sugar on to refiners, they added. Japanese buyers are believed to have contracts to buy some 950,000 tonnes of raw sugar from Cuba for 1987 shipment. But Japan's actual raw sugar imports from Cuba are likely to total only some 400,000 to 450,000 tonnes this year, against 576,990 in 1986, reflecting both the postponements and sales earlier this year by Japanese traders of an estimated 150,000 tonnes of Cuban sugar to the USSR for 1987 shipment, they said. They estimated Japan's total sugar imports this year at 1.8 mln tonnes, against 1.81 mln in 1986, of which Australia is expected to supply 550,000, against 470,000, South Africa 350,000, against 331,866, and Thailand 400,000, after 390,776. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET

The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from falling below 140.00 yen, dealers said. The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars to prevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yen against 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close here yesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April 15. REUTER 
JAPAN AGENCY URGES WATCH ON YEN RISE EFFECTS

Japan should look out for possible effects of the yen's recent sharp rise on Japan's economy as growth remains slow, the government's Economic Planning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to cabinet ministers. EPA officials told reporters the underlying trend of the economy is firm but growth is slow due to sluggish exports. Customs-cleared exports by volume fell 4.9 pct month-on-month in February after a 2.8 pct fall in March. The government must take adequate economic measures to expand domestic demand and stabilise exchange rates in a bid to ensure sustained econonic growth, the report said. The report made a special reference to the yen's renewed rise and its effect on the economy, the officials said, adding the agency's judgement of current economic conditions has not changed since last month. The EPA said last month Japan's economy is beginning to show signs of bottoming out, conditional upon exchange rates. The dollar fell below 139 yen in early trading today - a post-war low. REUTER 
NAKASONE EXPECTED TO SURVIVE SALES TAX DEFEAT

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's unpopular sales tax plan has been defeated and although fellow politicians and political analysts agree he has suffered a grave loss of face only a few are willing to write him off. Michio Watanabe, a Nakasone faction member and deputy secretary general of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, LDP, is one of those who believes he will survive. "He's tough, he won't step down," but "will hang on to the death" at least until his term ends on October 30, Watanabe told Reuters. The sales tax scheme was a mainstay in Nakasone's plans to revamp the nation's tax system for the first time in 36 years. Watanabe acknowledged that the five pct sales tax was a mistake. "It was too greedy," he said. A two or three pct tariff might have been easier to swallow, he said. One popular school of thought among skeptical analysts is that Nakasone will be remain in office at least until the June 8-10 summit of industrialised nations in Venice. A Western diplomatic observer said he believed that Nakasone would be at the summit as prime minister. But he would not bet on his chances of survival up until October. Masamichi Inoki, a senior fellow at the conservative Institute of Peace and Security, said he did not think Nakasone had suffered irreparable damage. "He will certainly hang on for the summit," Inoki said. In any event, the general belief now is that the five pct sales tax, as championed by Nakasone, is a dead issue but that an indirect tax, in another form, will be introduced by the LDP. Inoki said he believed the issue would be resurrected as early as the next Diet (parliament) meets. The current session finishes on May 27. The newspaper Tokyo Shimbun expressed another stream of opinion, stating that Nakasone might well get another year to deal with the unfinished and unpopular business of tax reform. The government has to find a way of generating revenue to support an expected glut of elderly Japanese. And the only means of drumming up the money is to levy an indirect tax, said Watanabe, a former Minister of International Trade and Industry. The next prime minister will have to grapple with an indirect tax, and "whoever is the next prime minister won't be in the job very long," Watanabe said. Watanabe said he doubted the next prime minister would be any of the three so-called "New Leaders," LDP secretary general Noboru Takeshita, LDP executive council chairman Shintaro Abe, and Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa. Each of them controls a powerful LDP faction. "It will be somebody else," he said. Political science professor Rei Shiratori of Dokkyo University gave one of the darkest readings on Nakasone's political future. "Soon after the Venice summit, there will be a move to change the government by the New Leaders," Shiratori said. "He can't fight on," he said. He said Nakasone had a special emotional attachment to the sales tax plan as the last and most important item in Japan's purge of policies inherited from the U.S. Occupation. Shiratori said an indirect tax will have to be levied, but "to introduce such a tax, they'll have to change the prime minister." Nevertheless, Shiratori said he believes Nakasone could hang on until as late as September. REUTER 
JAPAN DOES NOT INTEND TO EASE CREDIT - OFFICIALS

The Bank of Japan does not intend to ease credit policy further, bank officials told Reuters. They were responding to rumours in the Japanese bond market that the central bank was planning to cut its 2.5 pct discount rate soon, possibly before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington on April 29. Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita will be in Osaka, western Japan on April 27 and 28 for the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, making a rate cut announcement early next week a virtual impossibility, they said. April 29 is a holiday here. REUTER 
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS FOR NEW MEASURES TO AID DLR

Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said Japan has no plans to take new emergency measures to support the dollar, other than foreign exchange intervention. He also told reporters that many major nations yesterday intervened heavily to support the dollar against the yen. Yesterday's intervention was large in terms of the countries involved and the amounts expended, he said. With the continued fall of the dollar against the yen, speculation had arisen in currency markets here that Japan might take new measures to support the U.S. Currency, such as curbing capital outflows. Miyazawa said that yesterday's news of a 4.3 pct rise in U.S. Gnp in the first quarter had been expected. Although the growth looks robust on the surface, the figures in reality are not that good, he said. He said the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) is expected to come up with a final set of recommendations of ways to stimulate the Japanese economy before Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone leaves for Washington next week. Commenting on yesterday's report on economic restructuring by a high-level advisory panel to Nakasone, Miyazawa said it was important to put the panel's recommendations into effect. REUTER 
JAPAN DOCK STRIKE TO CONTINUE OVER WEEKEND

A strike by Japanese dockworkers will continue over the weekend as no breakthrough is in sight, a Japan Harbour Transportation Association spokesman said. The association has not yet agreed on a schedule for preliminary negotiations with the National Council of Harbour Workers Unions, because the council insisted on talks with shippers as well as dock management, he said. The strike, which began on Tuesday, halted container movements to points inside Japan from the ports of Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Kitakyushu, Shimizu, Yokkaichi and Hakata. Reuter 
BANKERS CONFIRM JAPAN LONG-TERM PRIME UNCHANGED

Long-term bank sources confirmed their banks have decided to leave the current 5.2 pct long-term prime rate unchanged. The current rate has been in effect since March 28. The bankers said the rate was unchanged because the falling dollar and the bond market rally made it difficult to clarify the current level of yen interest rates. There had earlier this week been expectations of a 0.2 point cut from today in response to the fall in the secondary market yield in five-year long-term bank debentures, but bankers said last night the rate would be unchanged. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS UP TO 8,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 5,000 to 8,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for last-half May/first-half June shipment, trade sources said. Price details were not available. Reuter 
NAKASONE ADVISED TO EXPAND PURCHASES ABROAD

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was advised to work out a plan for his government to buy more than one billion dlrs worth of foreign industrial products as part of efforts to defuse Japan's trade frictions with the United States, officials said. Former Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe made the recommendation at a meeting with Nakasone soon after returning from a U.S. Visit designed to pave the way for the prime minister's visit to Washington starting next Wednesday. Abe met President Ronald Reagan and U.S. Congressional leaders during his visit. It was not known how Nakasone responded to the suggestion. It also included increasing the nation's untied loans to developing countries to between 25 billion and 30 billion dlrs over the next three years and giving foreign firms greater access to a six billion dlr international airport project in western Japan, officials said. Abe called for tax cuts and government funds to be funneled into public works projects to stimulate domestic demand. Abe spoke of the possibility that Nakasone's visit could coincide with the passage of a protectionist trade bill by the U.S. House of Representatives. REUTER 
EC SAYS JAPAN CAR EXPORT RESTRAINT NOT ENOUGH

Japan"s 1987 car export restraint to the European Community (EC) is not enough, EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq said. There are also strong signs Japanese exporters are diverting cars to the EC after the dollar"s fall against the yen made their U.S. Market unprofitable, he told reporters after meeting U.S., Japanese, and Canadian trade ministers. The EC has agreed that if it detects an abnormal diversion in Japanese exports from the U.S. To the EC market due to currency movements over the past two years, it will move to prevent it, he said. Over the period, the yen has risen against the dollar almost eight times as fast as against the European Currency Unit, he said. Japan has set an unofficial, voluntary 10 pct rise in car exports to the EC this year as part of its efforts to stop its rising trade surplus with the Community, which hit a record 18 billion dlrs last year. But Japanese car exports to the EC so far this year jumped over 30 pct compared to a drop of 17 pct in U.S. Sales, and a seven per cent fall globally. "We think there is some diversion there," said de Clercq. Japanese officials say the overall annual rise will be only 10 pct. "But even 10 pct is 100,000 cars, whereas we sell only 40,000 cars to Japan (per year) in total," he said. The EC is also demanding that Japan ease its strict checks and requirements for imported cars, which Brussels says is a non-tariff barrier. The EC is also worried because EC demand for cars is falling this year, making any rise in Japanese imports even more serious for EC auto manufacturers. De Clercq, who has taken a hard line on world trade problems at this weekend meeting in central Japan, said the EC appreciated Japan"s plans to cut exports and lift domestic growth instead. "But even if all these measures are implemented, it will take time. But there is not time," he said. "There are burning issues on the table which cannot wait. It were better that the fire were put out immediately and not to wait till the house burns down," he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO BUYING DOLLARS

The Bank of Japan intervened buying dollars shortly after the opening of 137.70 yen, dealers said. Strong selling from life insurance companies and investment trusts pressured the dollar downward, but the U.S. Unit steadied on profit-taking buying by petroleum companies and intervention by the central bank. The dollar's upward potential looks limited as forward dollar selling by exporters for commercial purposes is expected above 137.80, dealers said. REUTER 
SUMITA SAYS FURTHER YEN RISE UNLIKELY - JIJI PRESS

Japan's Jiji Press quoted Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita as telling Japanese reporters the central bank will continue determined market intervention to prevent a further rise in the value of the yen. Sumita, who is attending an annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, also said he does not think the yen will continue to rise, Jiji reported. He said the Bank of Japan is keeping close contact with other major industrial nations on concerted market intervention, Jiji said. He said coordinated intervention is the only way to stop the dollar from dropping too fast, Jiji said. The dollar fell below 138 yen today. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK INTERVENES IN TOKYO VIA BANK OF JAPAN

The Bundesbank intervened in the Tokyo foreign exchange market to buy a small amount of dollars against marks through the Bank of Japan, dealers said. The West German central bank bought dollars when the dollar was at about 1.7770-80 marks. Dealers' estimates of the intervention amount varied from 100 mln to one billion dlrs. Some dealers said the Bank of Japan appeared to have undertaken small-lot mark-selling intervention on its own account. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference the basic solution to currency instability among major nations is economic policy coordination. He said that is a time-consuming process as coordination does not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "That is democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said, there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations have sufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added. "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention will continue to operate," Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S. President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre and Washington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currency stability when they meet later this week. Asked whether the dollar is declining against all major currencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make any comments. He reiterated that many major nations have undertaken coordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar, including countries who are not members of the G-7. REUTER 



USSR ATTENDS ADB MEET, UNCERTAIN ON MEMBERSHIP

The Soviet Union is attending an Asian Development Bank (ADB) annual general meeting for the first time, but has not decided whether to apply for membership, a senior Soviet State Bank official said. "No specific plans exist for applying for membership," Yurij Ponomarev, international managing director of the State Bank, told Reuters. "It's too early to draw up any plans." The USSR is attending the 20th meeting as an observer. "The sole purpose is to observe and collect information first hand," Ponomarev said. He said the Soviet Union was responding to a long-standing ADB invitation to attend the meetings. "This is one of the fastest growing regions in the world," the State Bank official said. "It is in our interest to have good contacts." But those strengthened contacts will not be made at the expense of the Soviet Union's other relationships, he said. Delegates here said the USSR move was connected to recent efforts to develop closer ties with Asia. The policy was announced last year by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in a speech at Vladivostok. Moscow's decision to attend the meetings follows its application last year for membership of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Delegates said the USSR faces lacklustre growth and is searching for ways to boost its economy. Although the ADB said political ideology is not a critiera for membership, several delegates said politics would play a large role in any decision to allow Moscow to join. Moscow's application would have to be approved by two-thirds of the board of governors representing three-quarters of the total voting power of member countries. The basic votes of the 47 members are all equal and total one-fifth of all votes. The remainder are proportional to the number of shares held by each member. Japan is the largest shareholder, at 15.1 pct, followed by the U.S. With 14.9 pct and China with 7.2 pct. The U.S. Has more than 12 pct of the total votes, insufficient to block a Moscow membership bid. Japanese officials said Tokyo has not decided its position regarding the possibility of Soviet membership and said they noted the Soviets had not yet made any move to join. REUTER 
PHILIPPINES TO GET 300 MLN DLR JAPANESE LOAN

The Philippines has received a 300 mln dlr loan from the Japanese Export-Import Bank, Philippine Finance Minister Jaime Ongpin told Reuters. Ongpin said the loan, carrying interest of 5.5 pct a year, matches a 300 mln dlr economic recovery loan approved by the World Bank in March. Ongpin said Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expressed satisfaction at the recent rescheduling of the Philippines' 10.3 billion dlr foreign debt during a meeting here yesterday. The 14th yen aid package from Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund was also discussed. Ongpin said the Japan is expected to respond favourably to a Philippine request to raise the aid level to between 75 and 80 billion yen. The aid package, originally scheduled for Japan's 1986/87 fiscal year ended March, was delayed because of the Philippines' change of government last year. "The Japanese have indicated we may not get as much as we are asking for in one big jump from the 13th yen package of 49 billion yen," he said. "But they are likely to bring it up to that level for the 15th package." Ongpin said Manila had 14 projects in the pipeline for the 14th yen package. "We are trying get the 15th package mainly in the form of untied commodity loans," he said. Discussion on a Philippine request for 500 mln dlrs in soft loans to finance a land reform program, for which Japan is expected to supply most of the financing, had been put off until next month because of delays in preparatory work. Ongpin said he will make a strong pitch for the land reform program in his speech on Tuesday at the 20th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) here. Ongpin said the Philippines is very happy about the ADB's support after President Corazon Aquino took over from deposed leader Ferdinand Marcos. "But I would like to see them push more aggressively in the field of lending to the private sector," he said. The Philippines was the bank's second-biggest borrower after Pakistan in 1986, with loans totalling 316 mln dlrs. Ongpin said he expects ADB lending to the Philippines in 1987 to reach the same level. "They have told us they can lend us two billion dlrs if we want. But we have to come up with the projects," he said. REUTER 
JAPANESE FIRMS TO SELL AUSTRALIAN GOLD COINS

Three Japanese trading companies and one coin retailer will start selling Australia's Nugget gold coins in Japan from May 12 after actively buying at the first international trading of the coins last Thursday, officials involved in the sale said. They estimated Japanese companies bought 30 pct of 155,000 ounces sold on Thursday. The coins are likely to be sold in Japan at prices similar to the South African krugerrand. REUTER 
FOREIGN INVESTORS NET SELLERS OF JAPANESE STOCKS

Foreigners were net sellers of Japanese stocks in the week ended April 17 for the seventh consecutive week, the Tokyo Stock Exchange said. Net sales were 112.15 billion yen against 105.80 billion the previous week. Overseas investors sold shares worth 727.08 billion yen on the Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya Exchanges, down 5.3 pct from the previous week. They bought stock worth 614.93 billion yen, down 5.2 pct. REUTER 
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO SEEK JAPANESE CREDIT

Finance minister Manuel Azpurua said he will visit Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for planned expansion in Venezuela's state-owned aluminum, steel and petrochemical industries. Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by central bank president Hernan Anzola and director of public finance Jorge Marcano. "The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic and financial authorities, with the banks which have business and credits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companies already active here," Azpurua said. Azpurua said he was optimistic about the trip, in light of Japan's recent announcement it will disburse 30 billion dlrs in new credit to Latin American countries. "I think this trip is being taken at an opportune time and will allow us to reveal the potencial which this country holds for the Japanese economic community," Azpurua said. He would not say how much Venezuela will seek in credits from Japan. REUTER 
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH

Japan's preliminary industrial production index (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8 in March from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier. The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from a year earlier after remaining flat in Feburary. The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base) fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3 pct from a year earlier. The adjusted March index of producers' inventories of finished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary. The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85 yen, dealers said. Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened here directly buying dollars against marks, after reports that it intervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning. The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the central bank intervention, they said. REUTER 
INDIAN BORROWING FROM ADB SEEN RISING

India, which received its first loans from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 1986, expects to increase borrowing this year, an Indian official said. The official, a member of the Indian delegation at the ADB's annual meeting here, told Reuters the bank is likely to approve three loans totalling between 350 and 400 mln dlrs in 1987, up from the 250 mln in two loans in 1986. The official said negotiations on a 100 mln dlr loan for the modernisation of the Haldia and Madras ports had been completed and only need approval by the bank's board. The official said an ADB team is now in India for a survey of the second project involving imports of railway locomotives. He said the bank was also likely to extend a credit line to the Industrial Development Bank of India. The ADB in 1986 extended a 100 mln dlr line of credit to state-owned Industrial Finance Corp of India. The official said the ADB wants to gradually expand lending to India. "They (the bank) do not want their traditional borrowers from smaller countries in the region to get overwhelmed by (India and China)," he said. China is expected to receive its first ADB loan this year. "We are quite satisfied at having opened this new window in borrowing," the official said. "Our projects are being vetted quickly. We have no complaints." He said the ADB in any case would not be able to match Indian borrowing needs. "In fiscal 1986/87 ending June India will borrow two billion dlrs from the World Bank alone," he said. "That represents the total ADB lending to all its borrowers in 1986." The official said total Indian development assistance from multilateral and bilateral creditors is likely to total four billion dlrs in 1986/87. Asked to comment on U.S. Criticism of the quality of ADB lending, the official said: "The ADB is a regional bank and ought to have a better understanding of realities in Asia." "You cannot apply World Bank conditionalities everywhere," he said. "The U.S. Cannot impose one yardstick for every country." REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED

The Bank of Japan's deputy governor Yasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that the central bank has no monetary measures other than intervention planned to stabilize currency rates. He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut in its 2.5 pct discount rate. Mieno said the central bank is determined to restore currency stability through intervention by the major industrial nations as recent exchange rate volatility stems from speculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 600 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will sell 600 billion yen in 60-day financing bills tomorrow through 36-day repurchase agreements maturing June 3 to roll over a previously issued 400 billion yen of such bills maturing tomorrow, money traders said. The yield on the bills for sale to banks and securities houses by money houses will be 3.8498 pct compared with the one-month commercial bill discount rate today of 3.8125 pct and the one-month certificate of deposit rate of 4.18/07 pct. The traders estimate the surplus tomorrow at about 700 billion yen. The remaining 300 billion yen is mainly due to increased cash holdings by the banking system because of central bank dollar purchases. The operation will put the outstanding supply of such bills to 3,500 billion yen. REUTER 
JAPAN HOLDS OUT PROMISE OF FUNDS FOR ASIAN BANK

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa opened the 20th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank by holding out the promise of more Japanese money for the organisation. "We are ... Striving to enhance the flow of capital from Japan to the developing countries," he said. "The Asia-Pacific region is an area of special concern for us in our bilateral and multilateral assistance." He said Tokyo was ready to study setting up a special Japanese fund at the ADB, like the one at the World Bank. The World Bank fund is earmarked for use by developing countries. Developing countries and the United States have criticised Japan for failing to use its trade surplus to help poor countries. Later this week, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone is expected to tell President Reagan that Japan plans to extend as much as 30 billion dlrs to developing countries over the next three years, Japanese officials said. The exta ADB funding would be part of that amount. "Our cooperation is intended to contibute to ... Alleviating the burden on (developing countries)," said Miyazawa, who is also chairman of the ADB board of governors. "The developing countries today find themselves in a very difficult situation," he said. "With a few notable exceptions, those countries that are highly dependent upon commodity exports face a rough road ahead." While the developing countries can help themselves by striving to become internationally competitive and seeking to attract foreign investment, the ADB also has a role to play, he said. Miyazawa told the meeting the bank must beef up its economic advice program to developing nations and must work vigorously to identify development projects for loans. He also called for more use of loans that were not tied to development projects, but provided more overall help to the borrower. ADB President Masao Fujioka supported Miyazawa's view. "The bank has been fondly described as the family doctor," Fujioka said. "The bank will now have to equip itself to meet a range of services required to attend to varied needs of its developing members." Miyazawa told the meeting Tokyo was ready to allow its Export-Import Bank to co-finance ADB loans. These would not have to be used for the purchase of Japanese equipment. Tokyo was also prepared to let the Asian Development Bank raise more funds in Tokyo and financial markets should it need to do so, he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market, buying a moderate amount of dollars around 137.80-85 yen, dealers said. Some dealers noted talk that the Bundesbank intervened here directly buying dollars against marks, after reports that it intervened through the Bank of Japan in the morning. The dollar moved up on short-covering aided by the central bank intervention, they said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN DEPUTY SAYS NO NEW MEASURES PLANNED

The Bank of Japan's deputy governor Yasushi Mieno told a parliamentary Upper House budget committee that the central bank has no monetary measures other than intervention planned to stabilize currency rates. He also said the Bank of Japan is not considering a cut in its 2.5 pct discount rate. Mieno said the central bank is determined to restore currency stability through intervention by the major industrial nations as recent exchange rate volatility stems from speculation. Economic fundamentals have not changed, he added. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS POLICY COORDINATION KEY TO CURRENCY

Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference the basic solution to currency instability among major nations is economic policy coordination. He said that is a time-consuming process as coordination does not always proceed in a way policy makers envisage. "That is democracy," he said. Upon that foundation, Miyazawa said, there must be coordinated intervention. Major nations have sufficient funds to continue concerted intervention, he added. "Without doubt this set-up of coordinated intervention will continue to operate," Miyazawa said. Miyazawa said Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and U.S. President Ronald Reagan are likely to reaffirm the Louvre and Washington Group of Seven (G-7) agreements on currency stability when they meet later this week. Asked whether the dollar is declining against all major currencies, not only the yen, Miyazawa declined to make any comments. He reiterated that many major nations have undertaken coordinated intervention in recent weeks to prop up the dollar, including countries who are not members of the G-7. Reuter 
PHILIPPINES TO GET 300 MLN DLR JAPANESE LOAN

The Philippines has received a 300 mln dlr loan from the Japanese Export-Import Bank, Philippine Finance Minister Jaime Ongpin told Reuters. Ongpin said the loan, carrying interest of 5.5 pct a year, matches a 300 mln dlr economic recovery loan approved by the World Bank in March. Ongpin said Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa expressed satisfaction at the recent rescheduling of the Philippines' 10.3 billion dlr foreign debt during a meeting here yesterday. The 14th yen aid package from Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund was also discussed. Ongpin said the Japan is expected to respond favourably to a Philippine request to raise the aid level to between 75 and 80 billion yen. The aid package, originally scheduled for Japan's 1986/87 fiscal year ended March, was delayed because of the Philippines' change of government last year. "The Japanese have indicated we may not get as much as we are asking for in one big jump from the 13th yen package of 49 billion yen," he said. "But they are likely to bring it up to that level for the 15th package." Ongpin said Manila had 14 projects in the pipeline for the 14th yen package. "We are trying get the 15th package mainly in the form of untied commodity loans," he said. Discussion on a Philippine request for 500 mln dlrs in soft loans to finance a land reform program, for which Japan is expected to supply most of the financing, had been put off until next month because of delays in preparatory work. Ongpin said he will make a strong pitch for the land reform program in his speech on Tuesday at the 20th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) here. Ongpin said the Philippines is very happy about the ADB's support after President Corazon Aquino took over from deposed leader Ferdinand Marcos. "But I would like to see them push more aggressively in the field of lending to the private sector," he said. The Philippines was the bank's second-biggest borrower after Pakistan in 1986, with loans totalling 316 mln dlrs. Ongpin said he expects ADB lending to the Philippines in 1987 to reach the same level. "They have told us they can lend us two billion dlrs if we want. But we have to come up with the projects," he said. REUTER 
EC SAYS JAPAN CAR EXPORT RESTRAINT NOT ENOUGH

Japan's 1987 car export restraint to the European Community (EC) is not enough, EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq said. There are also strong signs Japanese exporters are diverting cars to the EC after the dollar's fall against the yen made their U.S. market unprofitable, he told reporters after meeting U.S., Japanese, and Canadian trade ministers. The EC has agreed that if it detects an abnormal diversion in Japanese exports from the U.S. To the EC market due to currency movements over the past two years, it will move to prevent it, he said. Over the period, the yen has risen against the dollar almost eight times as fast as against the European Currency Unit, he said. Japan has set an unofficial, voluntary 10 pct rise in car exports to the EC this year as part of its efforts to stop its rising trade surplus with the Community, which hit a record 18 billion dlrs last year. But Japanese car exports to the EC so far this year jumped over 30 pct compared to a drop of 17 pct in U.S. Sales, and a seven per cent fall globally. "We think there is some diversion there," said de Clercq. Reuter 
G-7 OFFICIALS TO DECIDE ON SUMMIT AGENDA

Senior officials from the Group of Seven (G-7) countries will meet next week to decide an agenda for the body's June summit scheduled to be held in Venice, Japanese officials said. The meeting will provide senior government officials with their first chance to discuss the recent sharp drop of the dollar, although the main focus of the gathering is longer term, they said. Deputy Finance Ministers, including Japanese Vice-Finance Minister Toyoo Gyohten, will attend. The meeting will be held in Italy, they said, but gave no other details. The leaders of the G-7, the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan and West Germany, are expected to discuss ways of improving economic policy coordination in Venice. The hope is that increased coordination will help reduce the huge imbalances in world trade and calm volatile currency markets. But economists say the strategy has so far not worked. Japanese officials admitted there is little more they can do on their own to stem the dollar decline, which last week saw the currency plunge to a post-war low below 140 yen. The officials said they expected sentiment against the dollar to change soon, once the U.S. Trade deficit starts to fall and the Japanese surplus begins to shrink. "We have already seen some signs of improvement (in the trade picture), but the market does not appreciate it yet," one said. Last week's passage of the Japanese government budget by parliament's Lower House also paves the way for Tokyo to take additional action to stimulate its sagging economy and boost imports, the officials said. Reuter 
JAPANESE FIRMS TO SELL AUSTRALIAN GOLD COINS

Three Japanese trading companies and one coin retailer will start selling Australia's Nugget gold coins in Japan from May 12 after actively buying at the first international trading of the coins last Thursday, officials involved in the sale said. They estimated Japanese companies bought 30 pct of 155,000 ounces sold on Thursday. The coins are likely to be sold in Japan at prices similar to the South African krugerrand. REUTER 
VENEZUELA FINANCE MINISTER TO JAPAN IN MID-MAY

Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua said today he will travel to Japan in mid-May to seek new credits for planned expansions in Venezuela's state aluminum, steel and petrochemical industries. Azpurua told reporters he will be accompanied by Central Bank President Hernan Anzola and Director of Public Finance Jorge Marcano. 'The idea is to hold meetings with Japanese economic and financial authorities, with the banks which have business and credits in Venezuela and with some of the Japanese companies already active here,' Azpurua said. Reuter 
CHINA TO HOST 1989 ADB ANNUAL MEETING

The 22nd annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank will be held in Peking in 1989, a senior bank official told Reuters. China, which was admitted as the bank's 47th member in March 1986, will take a place on the ADB board at the current meeting here, he said. Peking's representatives have been attending board meetings over the past year as observers with no voting rights, he added. He said China, the bank's third-largest shareholder after Japan and the United States, will take the seat on the 12-member board currently occupied by a grouping of Sri Lanka, Vietnam, the Maldives, Laos and Afghanistan. He also said the U.S., Whose nominee on the board, Joe O. Rogers, resigned in September 1986, has named Victor Frank as his replacement. Frank, a private-sector appointee, is awaiting Senate approval and will take up his post later this year, he added. REUTER 
JAPAN STEELMAKERS, CANADA MINE DISCUSS COAL PRICE

<Quintette Coals Ltd> of Canada and Japanese steelmakers failed to agree on the Canadian coal base price over four years from April 1, but agreed to have another round of talks in late May, officials involved said. Japanese firms have asked for the base price to be set at 44 U.S. Dlrs per tonne (FOB), sharply lower than the 75 to 76 dlrs of the past four years, they told Reuters. The base price is reviewed every four years under the long-term accord. The Canadian mine insisted on maintaining the present price, they said. Japanese firms bought 4.75 mln tonnes of Quintette coal in 1986/87, and plan to buy the same volume in 1987/88 depending on the result of the talks, the officials said. They added Japan has no plans to withdraw its price cutback request due to recent falls in coking coal prices on the world market. Meanwhile <Gregg River Co> of Canada has agreed on a Japanese proposal to set a temporary price of 75.80 Canadian dlrs on and after May shipment following the failure of the 1987/88 price talks, they said. Japanese firms plan to buy 150,000 tonnes of Gregg River coal for May shipment and hold another round of talks with Gregg in late May, they added. REUTER 
JAPAN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN MARCH

Japan's preliminary industrial production index (base 1980) rose 0.7 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.8 in March from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Production had fallen 0.2 in Feburary from a month earlier. The preliminary, unadjusted March index fell 0.2 pct from a year earlier after remaining flat in Feburary. The adjusted March producers' shipment index (same base) fell 0.6 to 117.3 from February. The unadjusted index rose 0.3 pct from a year earlier. The adjusted March index of producers' inventories of finished goods (same base) rose 0.7 pct to 105.4 from Feburary. The unadjusted index fell 1.1 pct from a year earlier. REUTER 
TRADE MINISTERS SAY GOVERNMENTS NEED CREDIBILITY

Four trade ministers ended a weekend meeting with a frank confession that their governments are losing credibility in world financial markets and will not regain it until they back their promises over trade and currencies with action. "Until today we have anounced policies, but when it came to action required it was done in a way that satisfied nobody," Japanese Trade Minister Hajime Tamura told a news conference. "From now on, if a government comes up with a certain policy, it must be followed by action," he said following two days of informal talks with the trade ministers of the United States, the European Community and Canada in central Japan. Last week, the dollar fell to a new record low below 140 yen, despite statements from the Group of Seven (G-7) leading industrial powers that currencies should be stabilised to underpin world trade. "We need credibility to gain confidence. When we have confidence, then we can have an impact," said Tamura. His colleagues agreed that when major trade nations fought over trade issues while calling for each other to honour free trade rules in general, it was not a sight which inspired confidence in the markets. "The time has come now to act in step with the talk. If you belong to a club, you have to act in concord with the rules, if you want to be credible," said EC external trade chief Willy de Clercq. Pat Carney of Canada said "We are meeting in a time of great trade tension. What the world needs to see is that we have the political will to deal with these problems we face." She said that next month's meeting of the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development and the meeting of leaders of the G-7 nations in Venice in the summer would be a forum to show this will existed. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter reminded the news conference that the results of such high level meetings could lead to action which would only have an effect on smoothing out world trade imbalances perhaps years later. "The media typically has a tendency to evaluate meetings like this in terms of tangible results. That is not the way it should be pursued," he said. "What is achieved in an intangible way almost always exceeds what is achieved in a tangible way," he said. Progress in personal contacts and understanding each others' positions and policies was just as important toward reducing trade tensions, he said. Tamura read out an agreed summary of the joint talks: Currency stability was now essential, but currency movements alone would not correct a U.S. trade deficit with Japan which hit 58 billion dlrs last year, an 18 billion dlr EC deficit with Japan in 1986, and a Japanese global trade surplus of almost 90 billion, he said. Trade retaliation, protectionism, and forcible export restraints which lead to a shrinkage in world trade flows were most dangerous, he said. The imbalances can only be solved by coordinated policies over a whole range of fiscal, monetary, trade and industrial measures, and in line with a body of internationally agreed rules, he said. In this regard, the policing role of the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade world trade body must be strengthened, he said. The ministers reconfirmed their individual promises to solve the problem. The United States will try to reduce its large budget deficit and restore competitiveness within its industries. Japan will introduce early and effective measures to expand its domestic growth and rely less on exports. The EC must continue efforts for balanced growth and reduced unemployment. All felt satisfied at the new progress in the Canadian economy. Reuter 
HONG KONG DEFENDS CURRENCY LINK WITH U.S. DOLLAR

Hong Kong has not taken unfair advantage of its currency's link with the U.S. Dollar, Hong Kong monetary affairs secretary David Nendick told the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank here. He said: "We have taken the rough with the smooth, having to accept a downward adjustment of our economy in 1985 following a period when the U.S. Dollar was clearly overvalued in world terms, but benefiting as that currency subsequently declined." He said that since the establishment of the link in 1983, Hong Kong's trade had been broadly in balance. This year a modest deficit was expected. "Under the link, Hong Kong's entirely free and open economy continues to adjust quickly to any external imbalances, but the burden of adjustment now falls almost entirely on our domestic interest rates, money supply and price levels," Nendick said. "The relative volatility in these domestic variables is the price we pay for the stability of our currency against the U.S. Dollar," he said. REUTER 
ADB MEETING ENDS, MARKED BY CRITICISM

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) today wound up a three-day meeting which was marked by criticism of the ADB from both rich and poor member nations. In speech after speech, the 20-year-old ADB was charged either with not doing enough to help countries in the region, or with funding projects which were not worthwhile. The attacks often, but not always, broke down along developed and developing country lines. The former, which provide the ADB with money, generally emphasized the need for quality projects. The ADB was not even spared criticism from its host country and largest shareholder, Japan. "I am not 100 pct satisfied with the performance of the ADB," Japanese finance ministry deputy director-general Fumiya Iwasaki told Reuters. He said the Bank had only approved five pct more new loans in 1986 than in 1985. He hoped for a return to the more rapid growth rates of earlier years. "The Asian economy is now changing. The ADB should adapt itself to those changes," he said. But supporters of the ADB said it already was changing, and Iwasaki made it clear Japan welcomed the steps being taken by the ADB's president Masao Fujioka. "So far, we have confidence in Mr Fujioka's leadership," Iwasaki said. To spur demand for loans, the ADB has restructured its country and agricultural departments to enable it to identify the needs of developing member countries more quickly. But some delegates said the ADB was putting too much emphasis on the need to give out more money, and not enough on checking the quality of the projects involved. "The success of the Bank should not be measured by the volume of its lending but by its contribution to the development process," chief U.S. Delegate Charles H. Dallara told the meeting. He said: "Project quality is an area which has attracted attention recently and on which the United States has expressed strong views. Although over the years the majority of ADB loans have been sound, we have had problems with some of the projects brought before the board of directors lately." Australia voiced similar concerns. Australian delegate C. J. Hurford said: "Bad projects benefit neither the Bank nor its borrowers. They damage the Bank's reputation and ultimately lessen support from donor countries and capital markets." There were also criticisms of proposals from developing countries that the ADB make more of its loans dependent on economic reforms in Third World nations. "We are concerned with the Bank's increasing preoccupation with dialogue," said India's delegate, S. Venkitaramanan. "We have expressed our unhappiness with the insistence of multi-lateral agencies on global prescriptions," he said. REUTER 
ADB CHIEF SAYS CHINA LIKELY TO BORROW 300 MLN DLRS

China is likely to borrow up to 300 mln dlrs this year from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), president Masao Fujioka said. The loans would be China's first from the ADB. "I think there will be at least one loan to China this year, and possibly a second," Fujioka told a news conference at the end of the ADB's annual meeting here. Asked how large the loans were likely to be, Fujioka said he thought they would range from 100 mln to 150 mln dlrs each. China is the ADB's newest member, joining in March 1986. China is the third-largest shareholder after Japan and the U.S.. It was elected to the ADB's 12-member board yesterday. Fujioka announced that the ADB's 1989 meeting would be held in Peking. The 1988 meeting will be held in Manila. Fujioka said the ADB would consider delegates' suggestions that it set up a task force of experts to define its future role. The ADB's performance was criticised by both its rich and poor members at the three-day meeting just finished. External experts had carried out a study on ADB policy for the 1980s, Fujioka said. He said a similar study for the 1990s would be useful, but the ADB had no fixed ideas yet. He said the ADB had already responded to members like the U.S., Which urged it to improve analysis of funded projects. "We had already decided that the ADB should strengthen its research capability," Fujioka said. He said ADB lending had declined, but "the amount is not the only thing that counts. We also want to be a catalyst by taking innovative measures like the promotion of the private sector." Fujioka also talked of the struggle between the U.S. And Japan over their voting power in the ADB. Total Japanese contributions to the ADB are higher than those of the U.S., So Japanese delegates asked for their voting power to reflect this. The U.S. Opposed the move. "It is advisable and wise, for institutions like the ADB to be viable, that there be a reasonable relationship between financial contributions and voting power," Fujioka said. But he indicated the problem remained unresolved. Asked if the ADB would respond to a plea by Vietnam to resume lending which was cut off in 1974, Fujioka re-iterated his view that conditions there were not conducive to banking. Fujioka declined to elaborate on Vietnam, but said there had been no pressure from the U.S. Or any other country on the issue. He also spoke about demands by the bank's financiers that it take a more active role in prodding borrowers into making economic policy changes. "The initiative must come from the borrowing country. We don't accept that we impose policy conditions. There must be a two-way consultation," he said. REUTER 
SOVIET UNION UNDECIDED ON ADB MEMBERSHIP

The Soviet Union's first official observer at the Asian Development Bank (ADB) said he came away from this week's ADB annual meeting with a favourable impression but that no decision has been made on whether the Soviet Union should join as a full member. Yurij V. Ponomarev, international managing director of the State Bank, said he will file a formal report when he returns to Moscow, but it will not contain any recommendation on membership. "We haven't started any process with a view toward membership," he said. Ponomarev downplayed the significance of his attendance, saying it only signalled a slight change in attitude by Moscow. Although this is the first time Moscow has attended the ADB's annual meeting as an observer, Soviet bankers have come to meetings in the past as guests, he said. Delegates here saw the Soviet move as part of an overall strategy to strengthen ties with Asia and improve the functioning of the Soviet economy. Ponomarev declined to comment on remarks yesterday by a senior U.S. Official, who warned that Soviet membership in the ADB would cause serious operational problems. "How would the ADB, for instance, use the (Soviet) rouble as a basis for expanding its capital?" asked the U.S. Official, who declined to be identified. Ponomarev said: "It is far too premature to speculate on the potential difficulties that might be involved if we applied for membership." In order to become a member, Moscow would have to gain the backing of two-thirds of the board of governors representing three-quarters of the voting power of member countries. Washington has just over a 12 pct voting share. REUTER 
DAIWA SECURITIES TO OPEN CANADIAN HOUSE

Daiwa Securities Co Ltd, of Tokyo, plans to open a new Canadian company after a June 30 deregulation of the Ontario equity market is implemented, Daiwa Securities general manager for Canada Hajimu Watanabe told Reuters in reply to query. The Toronto Stock Exchange earlier announced Daiwa became the first Japanese company to acquire an exchange seat, paying 361,000 Canadian dlrs, the highest price ever paid. "This is a prelude of our establishment of a new Canadian company," Watanabe said. Watanabe said Daiwa's new Canadian brokerage house will concentrate on investment in Canadian stocks by Japanese investors, Canadians acquiring Japanese equity, and government and corporate financing, mainly in the Canadian bond market. "We have now a huge amount of demand on the part of Japanese investors for Canadian stocks," Watanabe said. "So if we can get membership of the Toronto Stock Exchange, that should support our business very much," he added. Daiwa's application for exchange membership is subject to approval by other members and the Ontario Securities Commission. When asked, Watanabe declined to specify how much capital Daiwa, the world's second largest investment dealer, would invest in its Canadian subsidiary. "It is quite confidential at this moment, but say our main intention is not to create any friction with the Canadian houses," Watanabe said. He said Daiwa could easily set up its new unit with one billion Canadian dlrs of capital, "but we are starting at quite a moderate figure." "But small means quite big in Canadian terms," he added. Daiwa, which established a representative office in Canada in 1980, is ready to open its Canadian house as soon as Ontario security deregulation is implemented on June 30, Watanabe said, adding Daiwa is very pleased with its reception by Canadian regulatory authorities. Watanabe said about 10 pct of Japanese investment in foreign securities goes to Canada, ranking second to the United States which receives about 50 pct. "The Japanese institutional investors feel that it is rather risky to concentrate around the 50 pct" in one country, he said. Japanese institutional investors are trying to diversify to other non-American vehicles, and there are very few candidates that remain safe investment objects, Daiwa's Watanabe added. Investors in Japan are also feeling it is risky to concentrate in fixed income paper, and are looking more towards investment in paper equity and real estate. "So, investment in Canadian paper, especially Canadian equity, should have a great future," Watanabe said. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK REPORTED TO HAVE NO PLAN FOR RATE CUT

Bundesbank Deputy President Helmut Schlesinger said the West German central bank had no plan to cut its three pct discount rate, Nihon Keizai newspaper reported. The financial daily quoted Schlesinger as saying in an interview that the bank would try to maintain current interest rate levels for the time being. He also told the newspaper he saw no need for large-scale intervention in the foreign exchange market because exchange rates are stable. Earlier, Schlesinger told a press conference that the Bundesbank would continue its policy of maintaining short-term interest rates at a low level for currency stability. He also said he was satisfied with the current dollar/mark exchange rate but added that he was not certain if it was ideal for the West German economy. REUTER 
TOKYO EXCHANGE ALLOWS MORE GOLD AND RUBBER BROKERS

The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry (TOCOM) said it will allow five more members to become precious metal brokers, taking the total to 54, and four more members to broke rubber, for a total of 39. An exchange official told Reuters the Ministry of International Trade and Industry is expected to approve the the new brokers by mid-June. The move has been under study since early May in response to requests by non-broker members of the exchange. REUTER 
JAPAN EXTENDS 24 BILLION YEN LOAN TO BANGLADESH

Japan has extended a 24 billion yen loan to Bangladesh, Finance Ministry officials said. The loan, to be disbursed over two years from next July, is for chemicals, cement, steel and machinery imports and for setting up a power plant in eastern Sylhet district, they said. Terms were not disclosed. The credit brings total Japanese loans and grants to Bangladesh to 441.25 billion yen since 1972, they said. REUTER 
GERMAN CAR FIRMS SEEN PRODUCING SOLID 1987 RESULTS

The West German car industry celebrated its 100th birthday with a record-breaking 1986 performance at home and is due to turn in another set of solid results in 1987. But share market analysts warn it faces continued problems from the strong German mark and predict increasingly aggressive competition in Europe from the Japanese. On the plus side for the industry, which is West Germany's biggest foreign exchange earner, the analysts are confident the technical superiority and innovative qualities of the luxury producers will help them maintain a strong market profile. Most analysts thought Daimler-Benz AG <DAIG.F> would do best this year but expected Dr. Ing. H.C.F. Porsche AG <PSHG.F> to continue its slide because of the weak U.S. Dollar. They were generally optimistic for Bayerische Motoren Werke AG <BMWG.F> (BMW) but some were sceptical it could match record 1986 profits. Views were mixed on Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, but some analysts took comfort from the fact that Europe's leading car maker had apparently put a major currency scandal behind it. VW could be vulnerable as Japanese exporters, suffering from the strength of the yen against the dollar, switched their sales offensive from the U.S. To Europe, they said. Analyst Joseph Rooney with brokers James Capel in London, noted the Japanese drive was coming at a time when the whole European market was expected to contract slightly. But analysts saw most German manufacturers meeting the challenge, even though the Japanese were now starting to focus on the up-market sector. BMW's chairman Eberhard von Kuenheim shrugged off the Japanese drive in an interview with Wirtschaftswoche magazine."I view the move by the Japanese into the top class with a certain equanimity. Not only are we playing on home turf, we also have technical superiority," he said. The car industry benefitted last year from clarification of domestic rules on low-pollution cars, which meant orders put off in 1985 were carried out the following year. Tax cuts generally boosted domestic demand, especially for cars. Domestic registrations leapt by nearly 19 pct to a record 2.8 mln cars. The VDA industry association says this might ease to 2.7 mln in 1987, but predicts another good year. Looking to the future, Daimler has designated 16 billion marks for car sector spending in the next five years. Chairman Werner Breitschwerdt says spending is not aimed at quantity but improving high quality technology and accessories. Analyst Stephen Reitman with Phillips and Drew in London, said Daimler had the best earnings profile of West German producers, with group profits per share rising to 80 marks from 78.8 in 1986. Analysts were more cautious about VW. Reinhard Fischer with Bank in Liechtenstein (BiL) in Frankfurt saw VW's group earnings per share falling to 35 marks in 1987 from 42 in 1986. A recent report from his bank said last year's currency losses were a sign of mismanagement. It stressed heavy losses from VW's Brazilian operations and its Spanish unit, SEAT. VW's first quarter figures also highlighted problems in both the U.S. And Brazil, analysts said. VW reported flat first quarter earnings, except for a 39.2 pct fall in U.S. Sales and Brazilian sales which dived 46.5 pct. Reitman was more optimistic than BiL about VW's 1987 group earnings and, predicting an improvement in both Spain and Brazil, he saw an unchanged 42 marks per share, , He also said that VW now stood to benefit from not hedging against foreign exchange fluctuations. In a May 1 study, he wrote: "One point in VW's favour is that its extraordinary policy of not hedging forward has meant that it will have less far to go in adjusting to current DM/Dollar rates than the other German manufacturers who were to a lesser or greater extent protected up to 1986." Reitman was also reassured by the apparent end of the currency scandal, where allegedly faked forward contracts were not acknowledged by VW's banks. VW fixed final losses from the fraud at 473 mln marks for which provisions were made in 1986. VW's new Audi 80, a sporty model which German media reports say was designed to jazz up Audi's staid "Grandpa" image, contributed significantly to VW's first quarter performance. The 80 doubled its sales against the year-ago level. But the Audi range as a whole has suffered a huge setback in the U.S. Because of an image problem linked to claims of "unintentional acceleration." Von Kuenheim won't be pinned down on BMW's 1987 profits, but at a news conference he emphasised 1986 earnings were a record high. Without referring to 1987, he added: "If profits are less in one year or the other they will still be good." Rooney said group profits per share, which BMW does not publish, would rise to 62.5 marks this year. Some analysts put the 1986 group profit at 60 marks, a figure BMW does not deny. But Reitman was more pessimistic, predicting 50 marks per share in 1987, and a return to 60 next year. He said: "BMW will be the story of 1988," when it plans to launch an updated version of its Five series. BMW also has a big investment programme under way and Bil's Fischer said depreciations could affect earnings. Other analysts pointed to possible hedging problems and Reitman noted a 2.10 marks to the dollar hedge expired this September. Reitman said the outlook for Porsche was bearish for the year to end-July, 1987. Porsche's 1985/86 group profits at 84 marks per share fell 30 pct from the record 120 marks in 1984/85 and Reitman saw 60 marks in 1986/87. "With the U.S. Currently accounting for 63 pct of unit sales (this is expected to fall to 60 pct in the full year 1986/87) Porsche's earnings remain uncomfortably exposed to the DM/dollar relationship," he said. REUTER 
PEMEX OFFICIAL SAYS OPEC OUTPUT CRITICAL TO PRICE

Crude oil prices could remain around 18 dlrs a barrel until the end of the year, but OPEC's decision on output at its next meeting would be the critical factor, an official of Mexico's state oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex), told a group of Japanese businessmen. Adrian Lajous, Pemex' executive vice president of international trade, said current OPEC output already appeared to be very near the 16.6 mln barrel per day level it set itself for the third quarter. "Production is surging ahead of what was originally planned, while demand is growing more slowly than envisaged a few months ago," he said. He said OPEC had to look very carefully at what level of production in the third quarter would effectively sustain the 18 dlrs price, and that an increase to what had originally been envisaged might soften price levels. The 13-member cartel is scheduled to meet on June 25 in Vienna to review its December accord on prices and output. "I hope OPEC will follow a very conservative attitude in terms of volume decisions," Lajous said. A repetition of what happened last year, when OPEC boosted output and sent oil prices tumbling down below 10 dlrs, is always there as a possibility, he said. "I hope never again to go through the trauma of 1986. I expect other oil exporters have learned their lessons and discipline will be maintained," he said. Lajous said there was still excess supply and as long as this remains there will be a tendency to instability in oil markets, but prices should remain around 18 to 19 dlrs during 1987 if output remains under control. He said Saudi King Fahd's remarks last month, that increased production was not so important as long as incomes would not be affected by the output, were "very relevant and welcome from such a powerful producer." REUTER 
NO REASON TO CUT RATES - BUNDESBANK'S SCHLESINGER

Bundesbank vice president Helmut Schlesinger said he saw no reason to lower interest rates now. With money supply growth showing no sign of slowing down in May and the dollar stable or even rising against the mark, Schlesinger told Reuters that he was not convinced that a further cut in interest rates was needed. The economy is picking up, after contracting by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter from the fourth, he added. "We may have an increase in gnp starting in the second quarter," he said in an interview. Concerned by the first quarter downturn, the U.S. Has been pressing West Germany to pump up its economy and boost its imports, either through fiscal or monetary policy. Schlesinger said the contraction in the first quarter was mainly due to adverse weather conditions, just as occured in 1986. Year-on-year growth was thus about two pct. He estimated that economic growth for the year as a whole would probably be between one and two pct. "It is not a question of monetary conditions if domestic demand does not grow strongly," he said, noting that interest rates are at historically low levels and funds are ample. Schlesinger said he saw no signs that central bank money stock growth was slowing down from its recent year-on-year pace of 7-1/2 to eight pct, well above the Bundesbank's three to six pct target. He said the target could still be achieved but much will depend on the direction of long-term capital flows. Heavy inflows, particularly in January around the time of the EMS revaluation, boosted domestic money supply. "There is still a certain hope that the net inflow of foreign money can be diminished or can even be a little bit reversed," Schlesinger said. A major reason for the inflows was the market's conviction that the mark was headed higher. "As we can see from the market, expectations for a further revaluation of the deutschemark have diminished," Schlesinger said. The recent widening of interest rate differentials, the fact that the dollar has fallen sharply in a very short period and an improvement in real trade balances have all combined towards stabilizing the dollar, he said. Asked if central banks might act to prevent a sharp dollar rise, as the U.S. Did in March when the dollar rose above 1.87 marks, he said this would depend on the circumstances. At midday here, the dollar stood at 1.8340/45 marks. "Central banks are always in contact about these fluctuations but I cannot give any answer how they would react," Schelsinger said. "One has to look at how it (the market) is moving," he said, adding, "It is not only our own case, it is also the American case." He said that the West German export industry has been hit hard by the dollar's sharp fall and would probably like to see some correction now. "But it wouldn't be good to have short-term fluctuations," he said. "Let us wait and see." "It is mainly the strength of the (dollar) fall in a very short period which was a little bit of a shock, than the level (of rates) as such," Schlesinger said. The sharp rise of the mark, coupled with weak prices of such key commodities as oil, had a favourable impact on West German inflation down year. Although there have recently been signs of inflation picking up, he said that this was due to changes in key commodity prices. The underlying inflation rate this year would be unchanged, at about one to 1-1/2 pct, he said. Schlesinger said the problem of rapid money supply growth was longer term, in that the economy was building up the potential for a possible eventual resurgence of inflation. The above-target growth of money supply over the past 16 months had prompted some discussion of the usefulness of targets themselves, a matter which might be taken up at the mid-year meeting of the Bundesbank's council, Schlesigner said. But he added: "I don't see any great pressure to go away from it." REUTER 
JAPAN READY TO USE DIPLOMACY FOR GULF SECURITY

Japan was ready to use diplomacy to help maintain the security of the Gulf, Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said. But he told reporters Japan should not cut its lines of communication with Iran and Iraq because its policy was to take a broad political stance. Officials of the foreign ministry said Japan had maintained good relations with both Iran and Iraq, which have been at war since September 1980. Last week Nakasone ruled out Japanese military or financial help to patrol the waters of the Gulf. About 60 pct of Japan's crude oil passes through the waterway. President Reagan said yesterday the threat to oil routes in the Gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq was high on the agenda for next week's G-7 summit in Venice. Reagan has approved plans for the United States to step up its naval presence in the Gulf despite congressional expressions of concern and he has called on U.S. Allies to help maintain freedom of navigation. Japan's constitution prevents its armed forces from being deployed overseas. Nakasone has said that Washington understands this problem. REUTER 
NAKASONE, SUMITA AGREE RATE CUT NOT APPROPRIATE

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone today agreed with Bank of Japan governor Satoshi Sumita that a further cut in the discount rate was not appropriate at present, central bank sources said. They told Reuters the two discussed the subject at a routine meeting. Sumita told Nakasone he did not feel a rate cut was appropriate and Nakasone expressed his understanding, the sources said. Currency dealers have speculated that Japan and West Germany might come under pressure at next week's Venice summit to cut interest rates to boost their economies. Nakasone, but not Sumita, is due to attend the summit. REUTER 
JAPAN CONCERNED AT EC TRADE THREATS - MINISTER

Japan is disappointed at the recent threats of trade retaliation from the European Community (EC) just as the trade situation between the two is improving, Japanese Trade and Industry Minister Hajime Tamura said. "I am deeply concerned that the EC has moved to take a harsher line toward Japan despite this tangible improvement," he said in a speech prepared for delivery at the opening of a new centre designed to improve understanding between the two sides. Last week, foreign ministers of the 12 EC nations agreed to impose tariffs on a range of unspecified Japanese electrical goods unless Tokyo opened its markets more to EC exports. Tamura referred to a 55 pct rise in Japanese imports of EC manufactured goods in the year ended March 31. "I feel this is a strong step on the road to balance through expansion." "While I do not deny the existence of the trade deficit between Japan and the EC, I believe it should be rectified not by reducing trade through import restrictions or export restraints, but by expanding the (overall) trade," Tamura said. REUTER 
MATSUSHITA BRAZIL JOINT VENTURE TO MAKE VTRS

A Matsushita Electric Co Ltd <MC.T> joint venture will make VHS-format video tape recorders (vtrs) in Brazil for the domestic market in the face of government quotas on vtr imports, a Matsushita spokesman told Reuters. <Springer National de Amazonia SA> will start output in early 1988 at a rate of 20,000 vtrs the first year, he said. Springer National, located in Manaus and capitalised at 89.93 mln cruzeiros, is owned 51 pct by <Springer SA> of Brazil and 49 pct by Matsushita unit <National do Brasil Ltd>. It was formed in July 1981 to make colour televisions, audio equipment and microwave ovens. REUTER 
NAKASONE SAYS DOLLAR FALL ONLY TEMPORARY

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said the dollar's sharp fall against the yen overnight was only temporary. The dollar dropped sharply in New York after news that Paul Volcker would step down as chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Nakasone told reporters he did not expect U.S. Policy to change after Volcker steps down. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS UP TO 5,000 TONNES CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers have bought 3,000 to 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed, trade sources said. Delivery dates and price details were not available. Reuter 
JAPAN MINISTRY SAYS DOLLAR SHOULD BE ABOVE 170 YEN

The dollar should worth more than 170 yen based on purchasing power parity, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) said in its annual white paper on international trade. Using 1973 as a base year, the ministry said inflation differentials pointed to a yen/dollar rate of 172 in fourth quarter 1986. The dollar opened here today at 144.90 yen. MITI also said the so-called "J-curve" and the drop in oil prices together accounted for 33.2 billion dlrs of the 36.6 billion dlr rise in Japan's trade surplus last year. On a customs cleared basis, the Japanese trade surplus rose to a record 82.66 billion dlrs last year. The ministry said the fall in oil prices accounted for 16.5 billion dlrs and the "J-curve" 17.2 billion dlrs of the rise in the 1986 surplus. Analyzing the expansion in Japan's trade imbalance in recent years, MITI calculated that 37 pct of it could be accounted for by exchange rates, 24 pct by differences in economic growth rates between Japan and other countries, and 36 pct by so-called price elasticities of imports and exports. Analyzing the expansion in the U.S. Trade deficit from 1982 to 1985, the ministry said 24 pct was accounted for by exchange rates, 34 pct by differences in the income elasticity of imports and exports and 39 pct by differences in economic growth rates. The figures do not tally to 100 pct because other minor factors have been left out. "One index of trade structure, the income elasticity of exports and imports, shows that the U.S. Is more likely to experience increases in imports, while Japan is structurally predisposed to growth in exports," MITI said. Structural adjustment is already underway in Japan, under the impact of the strong yen, MITI said. Japanese companies are stepping up their imports and expanding capacity overseas. Japanese consumer attitudes are also changing. The ministry cited a survey showing that price was now the number one factor in the purchase of imports from the U.S. And Western Europe, replacing design and brand reputations. "The smooth adjustment of the economic structure calls for measures to address the needs of affected firms," it said. "Whole industries have felt the pinch and employment is expected to suffer." "Sustained economic growth, led by domestic demand, will also be an essential condition," the ministry said. It said four structural factors have contributed to the growth of the U.S. Trade deficit in recent years -- a decline in U.S. Industrial competitiveness, insufficient productive capacity, an increase in foreign procurement by U.S. Companies and short-sighted U.S. Management attitudes. "While (U.S.) exports have picked up somewhat with the dollar's fall in value, no marked improvements have appeared in the import picture," MITI said. REUTER 
MIYAZAWA SAYS JAPANESE ECONOMY BOTTOMED OUT

The Japanese economy has bottomed out after an extended period of stagnation, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a press conference. But he said he was not too optimistic about the state of the economy as the employment situation was still shaky in certain regions of the country. Yesterday, the Finance Ministry said its quarterly corporate survey showed that the economy was showing increasing signs of recovery. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 50,000 TONNES OF CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers have so far bought 50,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for shipment in late July/August and total purchases for the period are likely to be around 130,000 tonnes, trade sources said. Crushers reduced their Canadian purchases for late June and July to 111,000 from 120,000 tonnes due to seasonal maintenance work at oil mills. But estimated crushers' buying for July/August was slightly above monthly average and is likely to keep to this level for a while due to a better crushing margin compared with that of soybeans, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN GNP RISES 1.2 PCT IN JANUARY/MARCH

Japan's gross national product (gnp) rose a real 1.2 pct in the January/March quarter after a downwardly revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous three months, the Economic Planning Agency said. The October/December rise was originally put at 0.8 pct. For the fiscal year ended last March 31, gnp rose 2.6 pct, after a 4.3 pct increase in 1985/86. Last year's performance was the worst since 1974/75, when gnp contracted by 0.4 pct, and was below the government's revised three pct forecast. Economists said the strong yen was largely to blame for the slowdown in economic growth in 1986/87. Domestic demand increased 0.7 pct in the January/March quarter and 4.3 pct in the fiscal year, compared with growth of 0.6 pct in October/December and 3.7 pct in 1985/86. The annualized growth rate in the January/March quarter accelerated to 4.9 pct, from 2.9 pct in October/December. In nominal terms, gnp rose 0.7 pct in January/March, after a 0.5 pct October/December rise, reflecting lower prices. Domestic demand contributed 0.7 percentage point to real gnp growth in January/March, while foreign trade added 0.5 point. In October/December domestic demand contributed 0.6 point, while foreign trade added 0.2 point. Of the 0.5 point contribution of foreign trade to gnp last quarter, rising exports accounted for 0.3 point and falling imports contributed 0.2. Total export volume rose 2.0 pct quarter-on-quarter in January/March, while imports fell 1.2 pct. Of the 0.7 point contribution of domestic demand to January/March gnp growth, the private sector accounted for 1.1 point while the public sector knocked off 0.4. The private sector contribution included 0.4 point for corporate capital outlays and 1.0 for consumer spending, while destocking subtracted 0.3 point. In 1986/87, domestic demand contributed 4.1 percentage points to growth while foreign trade knocked off 1.5 points. In 1985/86, the domestic demand contribution was 3.6 points and foreign trade 0.7 point. REUTER 
JAPAN MAY MONEY SUPPLY UP 10.2 PCT

Japan's broadly defined money supply average of M-2 plus certificates of deposit (CD) jumped a preliminary 10.2 pct in May from a year earlier, the Bank of Japan said. The increase is the largest year-on-year rise since March 1982 when the money supply gained 10.5 pct. The money supply had increased 9.8 pct in April. The seasonally adjusted average in May rose 1.0 pct from the previous month. Unadjusted M-2 plus CDs were an average 347,200 billion yen in May against 345,500 billion in April. REUTER 
JAPAN TRUCK MAKERS TO CURB EXPORTS TO NORTH KOREA

All four Japanese makers of large trucks will stop exports to North Korea following the issue of Japanese government guidance, company spokesmen told Reuters. The move responds to the U.S. Government's expression of concern that North Korea was using Japanese-made trucks as missile launching pads, they said. <Nissan Diesel Motor Co Ltd> shipped 156 vehicles including large and mid-sized trucks and buses to North Korea in 1986 while Isuzu Motors Ltd <ISUM.T> exported more than 100 six to eight-tonne trucks in 1986, company spokesmen said. A spokesman for Mitsubishi Motors Corp <MIMT.T> said it had almost no trade with North Korea last year. <Hino Motors Ltd> shipped 28 five-tonne trucks in 1986, a company spokesman said. REUTER 
ASEAN SEES CLOSER ECONOMIC TIES WITH JAPAN

Foreign Ministers of the Association of South-east Asian Nations (ASEAN) said they expect closer economic ties with Japan. A communique issued at the end of a two-day ministerial meeting said Asean hoped for greater Japanese investment in the region, better access for Asean products in the Japanese market and larger numbers of visiting Japanese tourists. The ministers are due to start four days of talks tomorrow with officials of the U.S., Japan, the European Community, New Zealand, Australia and Canada, including Secretary of State George Shultz and Japan's Foreign Minister Tadashi Kuranari. The Asean communique noted Japan's large trade surplus, which it said would enable Tokyo to play a greater role in the economic development of ASEAN and in facilitating closer ASEAN economic cooperation. "Japan could also help to facilitate the flow of Japanese investments to ASEAN through the provision of attractive financial assistance and incentives for its private sector," it said. The communique also welcomed President Reagan's firm action in vetoing trade protectionist measures in the Congress. The communique said the ASEAN ministers were concerned over the proliferation of protectionist policies, pressures and measures in developed countries, the continued depressed level of commodity prices, the instability of exchange rates and the lack of a comprehensive solution to the world debt situation. REUTER 
MITSUBISHI HEAVY BUILDS ENERGY-SAVING TANKER

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd <MITH.T> said it began building the world's most advanced energy-saving tanker, which consumes only 48 tonnes of fuel oil a day. Construction of the 258,000 dwt VLCC (very large crude carrier) Nisseki Maru for <Tokyo Tanker Co Ltd>, a shipping arm of Nippon Oil Co Ltd <NPOL.T>, is expected to be completed in April 1988. It would run on the Japan/Gulf route, a company statement said. The statement gave no other details. Mitsubishi Heavy last year finished building a vlcc of similar size, but which consumed 57 tonnes of fuel a day. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN MAY EXPAND BROKER CALL MARKET

The Bank of Japan is considering expanding the 60 billion yen daily limit on each securities firm's outstanding transactions in the yen call market at the request of the securities industry, Bank of Japan sources said. But before doing this, the Bank is waiting to see the effect on brokers' fund raising of the change, effective in August, to a shorter settlement period for cash bond transactions, the sources said. REUTER 
JAPAN OFFICIALS SAY WORST MAY BE OVER FOR ECONOMY

Government officials said the worst may be over for the Japanese economy, after today's news of stronger than expected growth in the January/March period. But private economists were not so sure and said the economy was unlikely to achieve the government's 3.5 pct growth forecast in the current fiscal year ending next March. As already reported, GNP rose 1.2 pct in the January/March quarter, after a revised 0.7 pct increase in the previous three months. For the fiscal year that ended last March 31, GNP growth slowed to 2.6 pct from 4.3 pct in 1985/86. The government economists acknowledged that the improved export performance in the January/March quarter was unlikely to be repeated. The volume of exports during the period was up two pct from the previous three months. The yen's rise in April to about 140 to the dollar from 150 probably resulted in a fall in exports in the April/June quarter, they said. However, given the yen's recent stability, stepped-up domestic demand should work as a driving force to push the economy onto a path of sustainable growth, they said. Many private economists, though, doubt that the economy will achieve the government's 3.5 pct growth forecast for the 1987/88 year. Growth in 1986/87 also fell short of the government's forecast, which was revised downwards to three pct last December from an original four pct. Domestic demand as a whole is not strong enough, except for housing, said Johsen Takahashi, chief economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute. Consumer spending is likely to remain weak as the growth in nominal income stays low, he added. The rise in consumer spending in the January-March quarter was simply a reflection of the contraction that occurred in the preceding three months, Takahashi said. Private capital spending in the quarter looked strong but this was primarily because utility companies brought forward their 1987/88 capital investment plans into the final quarter of 1986/87 in line with the government's economic stimulation package announced last fall, he said. Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank chief economist Kosaku Furuta said he was unable to say the economy has bottomed out, but added he expects increasing signs of recovery in the coming months. Destocking is coming to an end and companies are starting to rebuild inventories, Furuta said. Housing is expected to remain buoyant, backed up by lower interest rates as well as government policies to stimulate the sector, he said. The government's recently unveiled 6,000 billion yen economic package will also help the economy. But he said that the economy was unlikely to achieve the government's 3.5 pct forecast for 1987/88, although growth might come close to three pct. REUTER 
JAPAN HAS NO PLANS TO LIBERALISE FARM MARKET

Japan has no plans to liberalise its farm markets, but will try to narrow the gap between the price of farm products at home and overseas, Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said. He told reporters the move is aimed at deflecting criticism of Japanese protectionism on its agricultural goods. But Kato said he has no plans to start bilateral trade talks with the United States over rice, Japan's staple food. Washington has called Tokyo's rice policy an extreme example of protectionism and has demanded access for U.S. Growers to the Japanese market. This is closed to imports except in emergency. Kato said Japanese farmers should however "shed some blood," to relieve the dangerous state of international farm trade. His comments precede a meeting on July 1 and 2 of the Rice Price Council at which the government advisory body will discuss the 1987 crop producer rice price. Kato said he welcomed the outcome of last week's recent summit of leaders of leading industrialised democracies in Venice and of farm trade talks at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in May. Ministers at both conferences agreed on the long-term need to cut subsidies worldwide, Kato said. Kato said that Japan is not the only country to protect producers. He said the United States spends some 25.8 billion dlrs a year to support producer prices and on its export enhancement program and the EC 21.7 billion, while Japan spends only 2.9 billion. He said that although Japan provides the world's highest level of subsidies per acre, its subsidy per farm family was several times lower than in the United States. Expressing concern about growing protectionist moves in U.S. Congress, he said Japan should make efforts to prevent farm trade issues between the two countries from becoming a factor increasing protectionism in the United States. Japan and the United States are holding panel discussions at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade over Japan's import restrictions on 12 farm items. Bilateral talks on beef and citrus trade in the period from next April are due to start this autumn. REUTER 
JAPAN FOREIGN SHIPBUILDING ORDERS FALL IN MAY

New foreign shipbuilding orders received by Japanese yards in May fell to five vessels totalling 188,900 gross tons (gt) from eight ships of 314,000 gt in April, against four ships of 104,500 gt a year earlier, the Japan Ship Exporters Association said. The backlog of orders at end-May was 122 ships of 3.70 mln gt against 125 ships of 3.73 mln at end-April and 233 ships of 5.99 mln a year ago, an association official said. The world shipping recession and the yen's appreciation against the dollar depressed May orders, he said. REUTER 
BARCLAYS SEES GROWTH IN TRAVELLERS CHEQUES

Barclays Plc <BCS.L> expects the global travellers cheque industry to grow three to six pct a year in the next five to 10 years despite growing competition from credit cards, divisional manager K.S. Nicklin said. He said the bank expected the size of the market to increase to between 39 and 40 billion dlrs in 1987 from 37 to 38 billion in 1986 because of worldwide economic recovery. He said China, the Gulf states, South America and Japan would be areas for growth. Middle-income groups in the U.S. And Canada would continue to use travellers cheques for overseas trips rather than credit cards. REUTER 
JAPAN 1986/87 COMPOUND FEED OUTPUT UP 2.3 PCT

Japanese compound feed output rose 2.3 pct to 25.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 ended March 31 from 25.23 mln a year earlier, the Agriculture Ministry said. The marginal rise reflected slight growth in demand for poultry raising and a moderate increase in demand for beef cattle raising, Ministry officials said. Compound feed sales totalled 26.01 mln tonnes in 1986/87 against 25.40 mln a year ago, while end-March stocks were 217,554 tonnes against 224,101. Corn use in feed output in 1986/87 rose to 11.71 mln tonnes from 11.02 mln a year earlier due to low import prices. The officials said corn imports rose because the world surplus and the yen's strength against the dollar reduced Chicago prices. The corn compounding ratio rose to 45.2 pct in 1986/87 from 43.4 pct a year earlier. Sorghum use rose marginally to 4.80 mln tonnes in 1986/87 from 4.79 mln, but the compounding ratio fell to 18.5 pct from 18.9 pct because of greater corn use. Higher import prices due to poor harvests last year in major producing nations such as Argentina made feed makers reluctant to use sorghum. Soybean meal use fell to 2.58 mln tonnes from 2.63 mln and the compounding ratio declined to 10.0 pct from 10.3 pct. The drop in soybean meal consumption resulted from increased use of cheaper rapeseed meal, the officials said. Rapeseed consumption in 1986/87 was 563,889 tonnes against 528,152 a year earlier. The compounding ratio rose to 2.2 pct from 2.1 pct. REUTER 
CANADIAN MINES AGREE TO CUT COAL PRICE

Members of the Bull Moose coking coal mine in British Columbia, Canada, agreed to cut the base price they charge Japanese steelmakers to 91.77 Canadian dlrs a tonne FOB for the year from April 1, down 14 dlrs from 1986/87, an official at a company involved in the deal said. The Nippon Kokan KK <NKKT.T> official said the cut was agreed after five months of talks between <Teck Corp>, <Rornex Mining Corp Ltd> and <Nissho Iwai Coal Development (Canada) Ltd>. He said the Japanese side would continue to ask the miners to improve the quality of Bull Moose coal's ash specification. Japanese steel mills and several Canadian exporters including the sellers of Bull Moose coal have had several rounds of negotiations on coking coal base prices this year, industry sources said. The Japanese steel firms started a new round of base price talks with <Quintette Coals Ltd> yesterday, while discussions with <Gregg River Co Ltd> will be held later this month, they said. Nissho Iwai Coal is a unit of <Nissho Iwai Corp> of Japan. REUTER 
ARAB HEAVY TERM CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN UP IN JULY

<Aramco Corp> has accepted Japanese nominations to lift a higher proportion of Arab Heavy crude oil under term contracts in July, oil industry sources said. Japanese companies requested a ratio of 80 pct Arab Heavy to 20 pct Arab Light under a term contract agreement with Aramco for 100,000 barrels per day, the sources said. The contractual ratio is 30 pct heavy crude to 70 pct light. Japanese demand for heavy crude oil has increased substantially since the All Japan Seaman's Union ceased sailing into the northern Mideast gulf last month, causing problems with liftings of heavy Kuwait and Khafji crudes. REUTER 
INDONESIA CUTS JULY CRUDE SUPPLIES TO JAPAN

Indonesia's state oil company, Pertamina, has informed its affiliated Japanese companies that crude oil supplies will be 40 pct less than contractual volumes in July, a spokesman for an affiliated company said. He said the allocations were in line with Indonesia's production ceiling under its current OPEC quota, so they might be increased if OPEC ratifies a production rise next week. Allocations of Indonesia's main traded crude, Minas, had been cut by 50 pct and Duri by 38 pct, he said. Last month contractual volumes were cut by 30 pct. Contractual volumes assume no production ceiling. Oil traders said Indonesian grades were already trading above their official selling prices (osp) on the spot market due to strong demand from Japan and the U.S. And tight supplies. A cargo of Duri loading in July was reportedly traded yesterday at 70 cents over its osp of 15.60 dlrs per barrel and Minas is trading about 20 cents higher, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN TRADE SURPLUS WILL GROW AGAIN IN 1987, OECD

Japan's trade surplus is likely to continue to grow in 1987, as sales of Japanese goods abroad increase while domestic demand remains sluggish, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said. In its latest half-yearly review of the world economy, the OECD said Japan managed to considerably reduce its surplus last year, when domestic demand grew by four pct in 1986 while export markets rose by only two pct. But it said this differential between the growth of domestic and foreign demand would reverse in 1987 and 1988, "thus weakening the international adjustment process." It forecast a slowing in domestic growth to little over two pct but with a rise in exports of 3.3 pct in 1987 and 3.6 pct in 1988. As a result, the current account surplus in 1987 will rise to 95 billion dlrs from 86 billion in 1986, although in 1988 it should fall back to 87 billion dlrs. The OECD outlook did not take account of the 6,000 billion yen package announced last month to stimulate domestic demand and increase imports to Japan. However, OECD officials said the measures will significantly strengthen domestic demand, quite possibly exceeding one pct GNP when the full effects have worked through, and thus will provide some stimulus to imports. The OECD outlook said, "Continued large current account surpluses and the further build-up of an already-substantial net external asset position could well lead to upward pressure on the yen." It said that further appreciation could then lead manufacturers to postpone their investment plans and thus weaken domestic growth. The OECD said Japan's Gross National Product was likely to gorw an annual two pct in 1987 and 1988, below 1986's 2.5 pct growth. But it said Japan would continue its good performance on inflation, with a zero figure expected in 1987 compared to a 0.6 pct rise in consumer prices last year. Reuter 
JAPAN STILL WANTS SPECULATIVE DLR DEALS LIMITED

The Finance Ministry is still asking financial institutions to limit speculative dollar dealings, Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told reporters. He was responding to rumours in the New York currency market overnight that the Ministry was reducing its pressure on institutions to refrain from excessively speculative dollar dealings. REUTER 
JAPAN APPROVES AID FOR INDONESIA, BRAZIL ALUMINIUM

Japan's cabinet approved a plan to help financially-troubled aluminium ventures in Indonesia and Brazil, an official at the Ministry of International and Trade Industry (MITI) said. Japan will invest 24 billion yen in <PT Indonesia Asahan Aluminium> in addition to the 68.3 billion yen already invested in the company. The government and private interests will equally share the additional investment, he said. They will also provide equal shares in 6.3 billion yen in new investment in the Albras Amazon aluminium project in Brazil, in addition to the 45.7 billion yen already invested. The Japan Export-Import Bank will cut its rates on loans to Asahan and Albras to about five pct from about seven pct, the official said. Interest rates on loans by Japan's private banks to the two projects are expected to be reduced to around five pct from the current seven to eight pct, but an agreement has yet to be reached, industry sources said. Under the rescue scheme for Asahan, in which 91.1 billion yen has been invested, Indonesia will also extend another 32 billion yen to the company. This will raise Indonesia's investment ratio to about 40 pct from the current 25 pct. The Brazilian government has already agreed to invest an additional 6.5 billion yen in Albras, in which investment now totals 93.2 billion yen, but its stake will not change from 51 pct, the official said. The sources said the rescue programs for the two projects were larger than earlier expected, reflecting Japan's desire to help develop the economies of Indonesia and Brazil and to stabilise sources of aluminium. Japan depends on imports for more than 90 pct of its aluminium demand, which totals some 1.8 mln tonnes a year, they said. REUTER 
JAPAN'S JUNE INTERIM TRADE SURPLUS NARROWS

Japan's custom-cleared trade surplus narrowed to 1.61 billion dlrs in the first 10 days of June from 1.97 billion a year earlier, the Finance Ministry said. The June interim surplus compares with a 1.76 billion dlr surplus in the same May period. FOB exports in the first 10 days of June rose 17.6 pct from a year earlier to 6.05 billion dlrs while CIF imports rose 39.6 pct to 4.44 billion. The average yen/dollar rate used for the figures was 141.04 yen against 169.03 a year earlier. REUTER 
JAPAN TO MAKE LOANS TO INDONESIA AND BOLIVIA

Japan will lend 27.17 billion yen to Indonesia and will share equally with the World Bank a 7.25 billion yen loan to Bolivia as part of its efforts to help Third World countries, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. The lending is in line with Japan's plan to contribute 20 billion dlrs over the next three years to developing countries. Both loans will be used for development, the spokesman told Reuters. He declined to name terms. REUTER 
AGENCY HEAD SAYS JAPAN SHOULD CUT RICE PRICE

The government should cut its consumer rice price if the official producer price is reduced next month, Tetsuo Kondo, director general of the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA), told reporters. Kondo said after a cabinet meeting that consumers should receive the benefits of the falling costs of rice farming due to the strong yen and lower oil prices. Agriculture Ministry sources said the producer rice price paid to rice farmers would be cut after discussions by the Rice Price Council, an advisory body to the ministry, on July 1 and 2. The consumer rice price is usually set in December. REUTER 
JAPAN PANEL URGES WORLD ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENTS

Japan could avoid a sharp rise in the value of the yen against the dollar if Japan, the U.S. And other nations succeeded in restructuring their economies, an advisory panel to the government's Economic Planning Agency (EPA) said. The advisory body said in its report that the yen would soar against the dollar if structural adjustments on a global basis were delayed. An EPA official told Reuters the dollar could fall to slightly below 100 yen by 1993 if Japan and the U.S. Failed to restructure their economies. The dollar's fall without structural adjustments would cut Japan's current account surplus to two pct of gross national product (GNP) in 1993, the report said. It said such a change would slow real GNP growth to an average of two pct annually during the seven-year period to 1993. If the two nations restructured their economies, the dollar would remain stable in real terms, while reducing Japan's current-account surplus to 2.1 pct of GNP in 1993. This scenario put Japan's GNP growth at 3.5 pct a year. It forecast real growth of three pct for the world economy and four pct for Japan by 2,000 if the adjustments were made. REUTER 
JAPAN MUST TRY HARDER TO CUT SURPLUS - MINISTER

Japan must try harder to reduce its trade surplus or the yen will come under renewed upward pressure, Economic Planning Minister Tetsuo Kondo. He told a press luncheon he hoped Japan could cut its current account surplus by some 10 billion dlrs a year until it is reduced to some 50 to 60 billion dlrs. In the fiscal year ended March 31 the surplus totalled 93.76 billion dlrs, or about 4.5 pct of GNP. The 6,000 billion yen economic stimulation package the government unveiled late last month would help slash Japan's current account surplus by five to six billion dlrs, he said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS CONFIRM ARGENTINA LOAN COMMITMENT

Japanese commercial creditor banks confirmed an earlier commitment to extend some 360 mln dlrs in new loans to Argentina, banking sources said. The commitment will represent a part of the 1.95 billion dlrs in new loans to Argentina agreed to by 350 banks worldwide last April 24, the sources said. The 350 banks were supposed to confirm their Argentina loan commitments by June 17. About 91 pct of them have already done so, but it may take some more time before all have confirmed their intentions, the sources added. REUTER 
JAPAN FIRMS TO LAUNCH SALES OF 100 OCTANE GASOLINE

Japanese oil companies are starting campaigns to market 100 octane gasoline to meet growing domestic demand for higher quality motor fuel, oil sources said. Ten companies plan to offer the unleaded gasoline this summer, starting with <Idemitsu Kosan Co Ltd> on June 20. Showa Shell Sekiyu KK <SHOL.T> introduced its Formula Shell 98 octane gasoline to the Japanese market in January this year. Formula Shell has achieved strong sales in Japan despite a higher price than regular octane gasoline, which has prompted other oil firms to offer a rival product, the sources said. "We have received a good response from consumers of Formula Shell in terms of a smoother ride and effective fuel consumption," Showa Shell said. Shell's product sells for 145 yen per litre, 15 yen higher than regular gasoline, and has already achieved a 38 pct share of Japan's high octane gasoline market, it said. High octane gasoline accounts for 25 pct of Shell's total gasoline sales in Japan, it added. Idemitsu said it hopes to raise high octane sales to 20 pct of its total gasoline sales from about seven pct, immediately after the launch of its Idemitsu 100. Nippon Oil Co Ltd <NPOL.T> said it will launch its 100 octane gasoline on July 1, aiming for an increase in high octane sales to 20 pct from six pct of its total gasoline sales. The rush to compete for high octane gasoline market share has been spurred by expectations that the government will lift gasoline production quotas and restrictions on gasoline station construction in the next two to three years. "Major oil companies are trying to boost their gasoline sales network ahead of the proposed lifting of gasoline production quotas," an official at a major oil company said. An advisory panel to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) recommended this week that the government press ahead with deregulation of the oil industry, including the lifting of gasoline production quotas, to help oil companies increase their international competitiveness. Japan's three biggest gasoline marketers, Nippon Oil, Idemitsu and Showa Shell, suffered supply shortages under the production quota guideline in fiscal 1986, ended last March. Domestic gasoline demand during the year was up 2.5 pct from the previous year, according to a MITI report. REUTER 
JAPAN BUYS 8,000 TONNES OF CANADIAN RAPESEED

Japanese crushers bought 8,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed for shipment from the last-half of July to September, trade sources said. Price details were not available. Reuter 
OIL MARKETS SHOW RESPECT FOR NEW OPEC ACCORD

OPEC has shown itself to be in control of the world oil situation with its speed in hammering out a pact to limit crude oil output to 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the rest of 1987, oil traders said. They said market respect for the cartel has increased since it announced Saturday that it would cut fourth quarter output to 16.6 mln bpd from the 18.3 mln agreed in December. "There are light oversupplies now, but OPEC ... Has ensured there will be no oversupplies in the fourth quarter, and is in effect putting pressure on end-users," a European crude oil trader said. In Tokyo, one oil analyst said, "There's no reason to expect a weak market from now on." A Japanese oil trader, also based in Tokyo, said, "We thought OPEC would have difficulty agreeing on fourth quarter production so the market will react very bullishly." Traders in Singapore said that while there has been only a slight increase so far in spot quotes for Dubai, a benchmark crude, they expect price increases over the next few days. August Dubai was discussed in cautious early activity at around 17.35 dlrs, above Friday's 17.15-20 range, but still below the government selling price (GSP) of 17.42. Even prices of light Mideast grades, such as Qatar and Abu Dhabi crudes, are expected to improve from recent weak positions, 15 to 20 cents below their GSP's. Singapore traders said sellers might now aim for GSP's at least. They said that after initial jumps, they expect prices to stabilise and hover around GSPs for the next few months. They said the Japanese oil market would be most affected and Japanese end-users would need to rebuild stocks for winter requirements before October. Prices are most likely to rise in the fourth quarter on European and U.S. Stockbuilding for winter, they added. "There's no doubt consumption will be higher than production by the fourth quarter and stocks are not that high," said an international trader in Tokyo. Another Tokyo trader was less bullish, "For sure there will be some shortage but it depends on how much they (OPEC members) cheat." A Singapore trade source said, "There is enough cheating and leakage in the OPEC sales system to convince traders there is no need to worry about shortages." Other traders said the questionable Iraqi production level, after Iraq's rejection of its assigned quota, was a bearish factor to be considered. Traders also said end-users now would buy as much as possible on term contracts and buy spot only when the market cooled from its initial reaction to the OPEC agreement. Spot product prices in Singapore were little changed in thin early discussions, with naphtha and middle distillates quiet on minimal buying interest. Fuel oil products were steady to firm on light demand and tight prompt supplies, dealers said. REUTER 
FAR EAST TRADERS EXPECT 20 DLR OIL IN JANUARY

OPEC's agreement to limit output to 16.6 mln barrels per day (bpd) for the rest of the year should boost spot prices and enable the group to raise its official reference price to 20 dlrs a barrel in January from the current 18 dlrs, Far East oil industry sources said. "Fundamentally, the market situation is bullish and the official price will be 20 dlrs in January," a Japanese refiner said. The sources said that in spite of over-production by OPEC members such as Iraq, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar, demand should exceed supply by the fourth quarter. Spot oil prices surged on Friday in late U.S. Trading as the market anticipated an OPEC agreement on second-half 1987 output. In early Tokyo trade, levels were firm at 17.30 dlrs for Mideast Dubai cargoes loading next month and 19.00 dlrs for U.K. Brent, traders said. They said they expect more foreign crudes to be sucked into the U.S. Market as the benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate (WTI) trades at around 20.30 dlrs. "With WTI at 20, 21 or 22 dlrs, U.S. Refiners will import Mideast and Far East crudes and this will strengthen those grades further," said a Japanese oil trader. Some Tokyo traders were cautious about whether thU spot market has further upward potential in the short term, having risen strongly on the OPEC news on Friday. "You could certainly argue that if New York rose on that basis, there's no reason for prices to go up again today," said one international oil trader in Tokyo. "But I think if there's any sign of a dip, it will be bought back up again pretty quickly," he added. One oil industry analyst concurred, "There is no reason to expect a weak market from now on." He said he expected OPEC to raise prices to 20 dlrs when it meets on December 9. Oil sources said spot prices are unlikely to surge strongly in the next few months due to cheating by some OPEC members and the likelihood that Saudi Arabia will act as swing producer to maintain steady prices. Iraq is currently producing around two mln barrels per day compared to its second-half quota of 1.54 mln, they said. Its export capability will rise to 2.5 mln bpd when a new pipeline through Turkey, comes onstream in or around September. Qatar is said to be achieving sales of around 350,000 bpd, against its OPEC-assigned quota of 299,000, by discounting up to 20 cents a barrel from official prices, the sources said. Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait are also cheating on the OPEC agreement with over-production and effective price discounts through counter-purchases, industry sources said. But they mostly agreed that Saudi Arabia will unofficially act as swing producer, cutting production to compensate for higher output by other members or boosting output if spot prices rise too high too fast. Saudi Arabia has a floating oil stockpile of 40 to 50 mln barrels. "Saudi Arabia wants oil price stability so the stockpile may be utilized to cool down the market if it rises too much," an oil industry analyst said. REUTER 
JAPAN TO RATIFY 1986 INTERNATIONAL COCOA AGREEMENT

Japan will ratify the 1986 International Cocoa Agreement (ICCA), with effect from July 1, and will renew its membership in the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO), Foreign Affairs Ministry officials said. They said Japan would participate in an ICCO meeting on July 13 in London to revise ICCO buffer stock policy. The 1986 ICCA has been in effect since January 1987. Government approval to participate in the ICCO was delayed by parliamentary debate over the sales tax issue, the officials said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN DETERMINED TO KEEP EASY MONEY POLICY

The Bank of Japan bought 100 billion yen in certificates of deposit (CDs) via repurchase agreements today to show its determination to maintain an easy money policy, central bank officials said. "Today's CD buying operation was designed to seek an announcement effect, in which we would reassure the market of the fact that we have not changed our policy stance," a senior central bank official told Reuters. The bank also bought 400 billion yen in two-month commercial bills to smooth out tight credit conditions in the interbank market today, the officials said. The central bank was concerned about growing market expectations of higher interest rates, which were in part responsible for the recent plunge in stock and yen bond prices, the officials said. But money traders said the market generally shrugged off the bank's CD operation because it was small and at a rate far below prevailing market rates. The rate on the key three-month CDs in the primary market was 4.08/00 pct, while the bank's bid was 3.75 pct, they said. The bank's bill buying operation also had little impact because it was regarded as a routine operation, they said. The money traders said they regarded the central bank's CD buying operation as simply a gesture to live up to Japan's pledge to guide interest rates lower and stimulate the economy. "We did not expect the central bank to ease its credit grip any further," a bank manager said, adding that the prevailing market expectation of higher rates will remain. "If this is the case, the three-month CD rate will stay above four pct for the time being," he said. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN TO SELL 1,200 BILLION YEN IN BILLS

The Bank of Japan will tomorrow sell 1,200 billion yen in bills from its holdings to help absorb a projected money market surplus of 2,100 billion, money market traders said. Of the total, 800 billion yen will yield 3.6004 pct on sales from money houses to banks and securities houses in 34-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 3. The other 200 billion yen will yield 3.6003 pct in 43-day repurchase accords maturing on August 12. The remaining 200 billion yen will yield 3.6503 pct in 50-day repurchase agreements maturing on August 19. The repurchase agreement yields compare with the 3.5625 pct one-month commercial bill discount rate today and 3.6250 pct on two-month bills. They attributed the projected surplus mainly to 1,900 billion yen of government tax allocations to local governments and public bodies. REUTER 
MAZDA SIGNS AUSTRALIAN COAL IMPORT AGREEMENT

Mazda Motor Corp <MAZT.T> has signed an agreement to import coal from <Coalex Pty Ltd> of Australia through Sumitomo Corp <SUMT.T>, a Mazda spokesman said. Under the agreement, Mazda will annually import 144,000 tonnes of Australian coal worth about nine billion yen. The coal will be used as fuel for Mazda's energy centre, due to start operations in November at its main plant in Hiroshima in western Japan, he said. He declined to specify the term of the contract, but added that such contracts are usually for long periods. REUTER 
HIGHER REVENUES DEAL BLOW TO JAPAN TAX REFORM PLAN

Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's diminishing hopes of overhauling the tax system have been dealt a serious blow by reports of sharply higher than expected tax revenues in 1986/87, government officials said. Nakasone has argued that the tax system must be reformed to provide the revenue for more than 1,000 billion yen of tax cuts promised in the government's emergency economic package last month. But his argument has been undercut by reports that the 1986/87 tax take was as much as 2,500 billion yen more than expected. That means the government should have more than enough money in the fiscal year ending next March to pay for the planned tax cuts without having recourse to the unpopular tax measures proposed by Nakasone, one official said. The Prime Minister has proposed an indirect tax and the abolition of tax breaks on small savings as ways of raising revenue to offset the tax cuts. But stiff opposition has forced him to shelve the idea of an indirect tax, at least for the time being. He still hopes to gain parliamentary approval next month to abolish tax breaks on small savings. The higher than expected revenues in 1986/87 partly stemmed from increased receipts from land and securities taxes, as prices of both shares and land soared, one official said. But corporate tax revenues have also been more buoyant than expected, perhaps indicating the recession of the last year induced by the strong yen was not as bad as thought, he said. The final figures for 1986/87 revenues are due to be released by the Finance Ministry on July 1. The higher revenues last fiscal year have also undercut attempts by the Finance Ministry's budget bureau to reduce investment spending by government departments in the 1988/89 budget, several officials said. A budget bureau official said the bureau still wanted to stick with its so-called "minus-ceiling" policy, which calls for government departments to reduce investment spending by five pct a year. But he acknowledged this would be difficult, given the sharp increase in revenues last fiscal year and heavy domestic and U.S. Pressure on the ministry to stimulate the economy. REUTER 
JAPAN SETS CONDITION FOR CAR PLANT LOAN TO POLAND

Japan said an international agreement on loans to Poland was needed before Tokyo extended fresh loans to Warsaw to help a Japanese car maker set up a factory there. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone explained the conditions during the first round of talks with the visiting Polish leader Wojciech Jaruzelski, foreign ministry sources said. They quoted Jaruzelski as saying of a private Japanese plan to export car production facilities to Poland, "If this project goes well, it will serve as an engine in future economic relations between Poland and Japan." Nakasone, speaking of the possibility of resuming extending official loans to Poland, said, "It is necessary that an agreement should be established at an international arena such as the Paris Club of creditor nations." He hoped that such an agreement will be achieved at an early date, but he did not make firm commitments about Japanese loans, the sources said. Along with western nations, Japan has witheld new official credits to Poland since February 1982, following the 1981 declaration of martial law in Poland. The Japanese car maker Daihatsu Motor <DMOT.T> and three trading houses including Mitsui Co Ltd plan to export production facilities to Poland's state-owned car maker FSO to make the Charade minicar, according to Mitsui officials. "We are pushing the plan on the premise of an official credit to be extended eventually," a Mitsui spokesman said. Nakasone also said that a joint Japan-Poland economic committee would discuss the proposed conclusion of an investment protection agreement later this year, the sources said. REUTER 
JAPANESE BANKS LEND 20 BILLION YEN TO GREECE

The central state owned Bank of Greece said a consortium of Japanese banks will lend it 20 billion yen for use in the public sector. The Bank said in a statement the loan will be for 10 years with a five year grace period. The first five years of the loan will have a fixed interest rate, slightly above the long term prime rate of the Japanese money market, with an adjustment in the second five years in accordance with prevailing market rates. Banks in the consortium are Bank of Tokyo International Ltd, Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd, The Long Term Credit Bank of Japan, Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Insurance Co, Sumitomo Bank Ltd, Mitsubishi Bank Ltd, Sanwa Bank and Yashouda Bank and Trust Corp, the Bank of Greece said. REUTER 
Japan May unemployment record 3.2 pct (3.0 pct in April)
- official



JAPAN UNEMPLOYMENT RISES TO RECORD 3.2 PCT IN MAY

Japan's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to a record 3.2 pct in May, the worst level since the government started compiling unemployment statistics in 1953, the government's Management and Coodination Agency said. The May rate surpassed the previous record of 3.0 pct marked set in January and April this year. It was also up sharply from 2.7 pct a year earlier. Unadjusted May unemployment totalled 1.91 mln people, up from 1.90 mln in April and 1.62 mln a year earlier. An agency official blamed industrial restructuring and the strong yen for the rise in unemployment. The seasonally adjusted male unemployment rate in May rose to a record 3.2 pct, surpassing the previous record 3.0 pct set in July 1986. This compares with 2.9 pct in April and 2.7 pct a year earlie. Unadjusted male unemployment totalled 1.12 mln, up 180,000 from a year earlier. The female unemployment rate in May was unchanged from April at a record 3.1 pct. A year ago, the rate was 2.8 pct. Unadjusted female unemployment rose 100,000 to 790,000. The yen's appreciation continued to affect employment in manufacturing industries and the total employed in May fell 210,000 or 1.5 pct from a year earlier to 14.10 mln. REUTER 
NEC TO SUPPLY CHIP TECHNOLOGY TO FRANCE

NEC Corp <NIPN.T> will supply <Matra-Harris Semiconducteurs SA(A)> (MHS) of France with manufacturing technology for 16-bit microchips used in microcomputers, an NEC spokesman said. MHS, a joint venture between France's MATRA <MATR.PA> and Harris Corp <HRS> of the U.S., Will manufacture and market globally a microcomputer based on NEC's Micron PD 78312 and Micron PD78310 chips. MHS will pay NEC an undisclosed sum for the technology. REUTER 
JAPAN TAKES WAIT-AND-SEE STANCE ON STOCKS-OFFICIAL

The Finance Ministry will take a wait-and-see stance on Tokyo Stock Exchange movement, although it is gravely concerned about the sharp fall in stock prices, a senior Ministry official said. The official, who declined to be identified, told reporters the 7.3 pct drop in Tokyo stock prices this morning was caused primarily by psychological factors following the 22.5 pct fall in New York stock prices overnight. He said the Ministry is in close contact with the Tokyo Stock Exchange, but has no plans yet to take any specific measures regarding the fall. REUTER 
JAPANESE PREMIER SAYS HE WATCHING STOCK SITUATION

Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying he was watching the stock market situation. "We must watch things a little longer. New York is down 22 pct, London 10 pct, while compared to this Japan is seven pct down," Kyodo quoted him as telling reporters. Asked if he agreed with analysts who called the stock sell-off "Black Monday," Nakasone said: "Compared with times past, economics have changed completely." He rejected a comparison between the present situation and the stock market collapse of 1929 and the recession which followed. REUTER 
Japan September M-2 plus CD money supply rises 11.1 pct year on year (Aug 11.0)



TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE WILL NOT SUSPEND TRADING

Tokyo Stock Exchange president Michio Takeuchi said the exchange has no immediate plans to suspend trading to cool off panic stock selling. However, he said Tokyo may consider such a measure if the London and New York exchanges are closed overnight. "I don't think it will happen," he added. He also told reporters the exchange will relax margin requirements effective on Wednesday to encourage stock buying. Takeuchi said the sharp fall in stock prices was mostly due to psychological factors. "We need to keep close watch on market movement but we expect the market will stabilise soon," he said, adding that individual investors should remain calm. "It is advisable to wait for an autonomous recovery of the market," he said. The margin requirement in cash will be reduced to 50 pct from 70 pct while the margin collateral requirement in equity will rise to 70 pct from 60 pct, effective on Wednesday, he said. Takeuchi also said the exchange has no specific plan to take coordinated action with the New York and London exchanges to help stabilise stock prices. The drop on Wall Street was caused by various factors but was primarily the result of a correction of overvalued share prices, he said. The current stock price plunge cannot compare with the Great Depression as the economic environment is very different, he added. The exchange has not changed plans to introduce stock futures trading next year despite press reports that the Wall Street fall was linked with futures trading, he said. REUTER 
JAPAN MONEY GROWTH TO STAY AT 11-12 PCT - OFFICIAL

Growth in Japan's M-2 plus certificates of deposit (CD) money supply in the October to December period is not expected to accelerate, but will remain at high levels between 11 and 12 pct, a senior Bank of Japan official said. The central bank will keep a watch on high growth in liquidity because this is a factor that may cause rises in prices of goods, he said. The September growth of 11.1 pct year on year announced earlier today should not be taken as implying that the money supply has started to expand very rapidly, he said. In August the rate of increase was 11.0 pct. REUTER 
JAPAN TRIES TO STEM STOCKS DIVE

Government and monetary authorities today staged a concerted effort to calm spreading panic on Japanese stock exchanges but market analysts said there were limits to their ability to succeed. "The ability of the Big Four (Japanese securities houses) and the Finance Ministry is limited," said Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Peter Morgan. Finance Ministry officials asked the big four securities companies this afternoon to help calm panic selling on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, ministry officials said. Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone was quoted by Kyodo News Service as saying he was watching the stock market situation. But he rejected comparisons with the 1929 stock market collapse and subsequent recession. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the Tokyo stock market should not be gravely affected by downturns in New York and London because there are clear signs of a Japanese economic recovery and exchange rate stability. Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita also tried to calm the panic, saying in a statement that world stock markets were excessively concerned about the economic future. Traditionally, the four big houses -- Nomura Securities Co Ltd, Yamaichi Securities Co Ltd, Daiwa Securities Co Ltd, and Nikko Securities Co Ltd -- have influenced the market because of their sheer size and overwhelming market share. This strength has in the past made it possible for the brokerages to calm down markets under guidance from the Finance Ministry, analysts said. But the analysts questioned whether the brokerages, which have already suffered heavy losses from falling bond markets over the past year, would have the strength this time to turn things around. "The question is, are the Japanese brokerages strong enough to force investors to buy," said Johsen Takahashi, research director at the Mitsubishi Research Institute. "If we consider that they have suffered serious losses in the bond markets and in their U.S. Investments, it is debatable whether they they could support buying," he said. "We can support things to some extent, but we can't completely suppress selling," said one Japanese broker. Some analysts said the high percentage of shares cross-held by financial institutions and other corporations could have a stabilising effect on the market. Some 80 pct of shares are held by corporate shareholders, said Keikichi Honda, general manager of the Bank of Tokyo Ltd's economic research division. "This is a tightly woven textile. In its own way it is stronger than Wall Street." But other analysts expressed doubt about this argument. "If a high percent of shares is cross held, everything happens at the edges and the relative moves can be larger," said Kleinwort Benson Ltd financial analyst Simon Smithson. "Selling will drive prices down an enormous distance because of no liquidity." "You don't need big volume to get big declines in the market -- you just need a huge imbalance between sellers and buyers," said Barclay's Morgan. Shares held by what are termed "stable shareholders," or banks and other companies with which a firm does business, might also find their way onto the market if the outlook gets bad enough, some analsyst said. "Closely held shares could become unclosely held," said Morgan. But he said such a prospect is unlikely right now because companies, with their improved earnings prospects, do not need to sell shares for cash flow reasons. REUTER 
TOKYO STOCK PLUNGE COULD FORCE EASIER MONEY POLICY

Plunging Tokyo stock prices will prevent the Bank of Japan from raising its discount rate and could even force it to ease monetary policy if the collapse continues, government and private economists said. A rise in interest rates now would only serve to spark further selling of shares that could ultimately have a major deflationary impact on the real economy, they said. Although Bank of Japan officials have consistently maintained that they had no plans to raise the 2.5 pct discount rate, many in the markets have thought otherwise. Fears of a rise in the discount rate were fanned by the central bank's apparent decision last week to countenance higher rates on commercial bills, dealers said. But today's stock market collapse -- prices fell nearly 15 pct -- means that the Bank of Japan would be hard pressed to raise the discount rate now, despite its concerns about a renewed outbreak of inflation, dealers and economists said. Japanese government bond prices rose sharply today as the markets concluded that the stock market's collapse precluded the central bank from carrying out the widely-rumoured discount rate increase. A senior government economist suggested that both the U.S. And Japan needed to ease monetary policy now to prevent a further drop in New York and Tokyo stock prices. "They need to support the stock and security markets," he said. But Bank of Japan officials said they saw no need to change policy for the moment, although one admitted that the central bank may have to rethink its strategy if Tokyo stock prices continue to plunge during the rest of the week. Both government and Bank of Japan economists agreed the economy is better placed now to cope with the deflationary impact of plunging stock prices than it was a few months ago. With the economy recovering strongly, the steep drop in stock prices is not likely to put a major dent in consumer and business confidence, one government economist said. "There will be some impact on the real economy, but it won't be that big," said another. Individuals are not heavily invested in stocks on their own, although they do participate through trust funds and other investment vehicles. And while many manufacturing firms turned to financial market investments for profits during last year's economic downturn, the recent rebound has allowed them to refocus their attention on their core businesses, he said. Paradoxically, it is the pick-up in the economy that is partly to blame for the stock market collapse as companies have shifted funds away from financial investments to increase inventories and step up capital spending, one government economist said. In deciding what response to make to the steep stock price drop, the Bank of Japan must first determine whether prices will continue to fall further and then decide if they pose a greater economic danger than the threat of higher inflation, one central bank official said. "That will at least take a couple of days, if not weeks," he said. REUTER 
TAKESHITA FACES TOUGH ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT JOB

Former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita, chosen on Monday to be Japan's next prime minister, will face a tough test in managing Japan's economy from the very start of his two-year term, economists and businessmen said. Takeshita told a news conference on Tuesday that he would do his best to continue the domestic reforms and external policies of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone. However, leading Japanese businessmen called on Takeshita to outdo Nakasone by showing stronger leadership. "Takeshita should not merely follow the Nakasone policies but should cope with mounting economic issues with a new vision and policies," Takashi Ishihara, chairman of the Japan Committee for Economic Development, said in a statement. Economists generally agreed that there will be no major changes in Japan's economic policies under a new leader. However, expectations are high among major industries for new initiatives by Takeshita for immediate and effective measures to solve economic problems such as trade friction with the U.S., Administrative and tax reforms, and soaring land prices. Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Federation of Economic Organisations (Keidanren), urged Takeshita to succeed in unifying the ruling Liberal Democratic Party as soon as possible to tackle difficult tasks. Regarding foreign economic polices, Yoshitoki Chino, chairman of the Japan Securities Dealers Association, said Takeshita should come up with economic measures well before economic issues develop into problems. Behind those calls on Takeshita for prompt action are doubts about his capability in handling international issues due to his lack of experience in diplomacy, economists said. Economists said foreign countries should be patient with Takeshita, who is widely known as an ultra-cautious politician. Takeshita has repeatedly said, "There should be consensus before taking action." Takeshita has so far failed to unveil specific measures to reduce Japan's huge trade surplus, economists said. He has said Japan will continue to stimulate the economy and to open the market wider to foreign products. REUTER 
EC AGREES TRADE DEAL WITH ARGENTINA

The European Community (EC) agreed a trade deal with Argentina designed to compensate the country following the entry of Spain and Portugal into the group, EC officials said. Under the deal agreed by EC foreign ministers, Argentina will gain additional trading rights on a series of products including meat, fish and cereals by-products. But ministers failed to agree on new trade deals with Canada and Japan and are due to study these again, the officials said. The deal with Argentina was agreed by a majority of EC states after West Germany withdrew objections to increased quotas for Argentina on high-quality beef. Ireland and France continued to oppose the deal on meat, saying that the main dispute was over sales of cereals substitutes, but they were outvoted by the other states, the officials said. Under the deal, Argentina will benefit from improved quotas on exports of beef to the EC. In particular the quota on high-quality Hilton beef will be raised by 4,500 tonnes to 34,300 tonnes and quotas on frozen boneless beef will be increased by 3,000 tonnes to 53,000 tonnes. Argentina will also benefit from an additional quota of 5,000 tonnes of frozen hake fillets at 10 pct duty and reduced levies on 550,000 tonnes of wheat bran, the officials said. The improved trade terms were offered after Argentina said that Spain and Portugal's entry into the EC affected their exports of cereals substitutes to these two countries. They have been negotiated under the rules of GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade). But officials said ministers had been unable to resolve Canadian claims that its sales of certain fish to Spain had been affected by the country's EC membership. Officials said the EC had asked GATT to arbitrate on the fish dispute with Canada. Ministers also decided to continue talks with Japan. The EC claims that Spain and Portugal's entry into the group has improved trade conditions for Japan but has been unsatisfied with Japanese offers of compensation. Japan's main offers were to improve inspection systems on citrus fruits to aid EC exports, to improve tariffs for some other farm produce, to increase tariffs for leather footwear and to offer better trade terms for Spain and Portugal. EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq told journalists: "We maintain our position that the (Japanese) concessions were not enough." "We hope that there will be an improvement," he said. Reuter 
TAKESHITA CHOSEN AS NEXT JAPAN PRIME MINISTER

Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) on Tuesdayhose former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita to be the next prime minister, replacing Yasuhiro Nakasone whose term ends on October 30. LDP officials told Reuters the choice was made by Nakasone after Takeshita and two other contenders failed in marathon closed-door meetings to agree who should be Japan's next leader. They were vying for the presidency of the LDP, a post which automatically carries with it the premiership by virtue of the party's parliamentary majority. Reuter 
SAUDI TO REMAIN AS KEY LPG SUPPLIER TO JAPAN

Saudi Arabia is likely to remain the key supplier of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) to Japan for at least the next five years, oil industry sources said. Japan, while diversifying its supply sources of propane and butane for stable supplies, will continue to bank on Saudi Arabian LPG, the sources said. They said Saudi's supply capabilities of LPG, an associate of crude oil, is guaranteed by its crude output capacity. "Saudi is a reliable supplier in that sense," said one trader. Japan imports about 50 pct of its LPG from Saudi Arabia. No single nation could substitute for Saudi Arabia as an LPG supply source to Japan, the sources said. "Saudi Arabia has committed itself to Japanese LPG buyers, which has quelled fears that LPG supplies from the Mideast Gulf could easily be disrupted in the wake of heightened hostilities in that area," said another trader. Saudi Arabia cut LPG shipments to Japan and elsewhere by 20 pct in September after a fire put a major gas plant at Al-Juaimah out of operation. October shipments were back to contractual volumes as Saudi was able to boost exports from other ports. Attacks on Gulf shipping by Iran and Iraq centered on crude rather than products carriers, which has lulled fears of LPG supply disruptions, traders said. They said an Iranian blockade of the Strait of Hormuz was unlikely because it would block Iran's oil shipments. Industry sources said Japan's LPG imports will not greatly rise or fall as its domestic demand growth is estimated at a moderate 2.1 pct a year from 1986 through 1991. Japanese term buyers of Saudi LPG are expected to lift slightly lower volumes from January 1987, when imports from Indonesia are slated to increase, the sources said. The customers are unlikely to slash Saudi term purchases in large scale when Japan increases annual imports of Indonesian LPG to 1.95 mln tonnes in early 1989 from 319,000 tonnes in the year ended March 1987, the sources said. But when demand is sluggish in summer, they will phase down term purchases of Saudi LPG and secure lower-priced cargoes on the spot market, they said. Japan imports some 12 mln tonnes of LPG a year, of which 5.3 mln tonnes are supplied by Saudi Arabia, 3.3 mln under term contracts and two mln through spot purchases. Some 80 pct of Japan's LPG imports are from the Middle East. Saudi Arabia's state owned oil company Petromin has made some concessions on term prices to Japanese customers in the recent round of contract renewal talks, and it is likely the Japanese will accept the offer, the sources said. The Japanese term customers, however, have so far been unsuccessful in establishing a transparent price formula to replace the existing unilateral monthly price notice. Japanese buyers pay Saudi Arabia a price notified by Petromin each month. Most recently the FOB price was set at 87 pct of the 17.52 dlrs per barrel government selling price (GSP) of Arabian Light. Buyers reserve the right to phase down or out liftings should the monthly price be set at over 95 pct of Arabian Light's GSP. Petromin has offered to lower this rate to 90 pct from the 95 pct for contracts with Japanese customers from next January, the trade sources said. Petromin also suggested that a seller's option of supplying up to 20 pct more than the contractural volume be subject to seller-buyer agreement. Under the present contract, Petromin can automatically cut supplies up to 10 pct of the contractual volume. "If you want to import LPG from Saudi Arabia on a profitable basis, you have to set the price factor at 80 to 85 pct," said an official at a major importer. "Freight costs are higher for cargoes coming from the Gulf than Southeast Asia due to a longer haul and war risk insurance payments." Japanese customers will visit Saudi Arabia this month to finalise their separate contract talks, now focusing on contractual period and volume, which could be very similar to current levels, the sources said. "When we talk business, we would seek profitability and sometimes forget vulnerability of high dependence on a single supplier," said one. REUTER 
ABE TIPPED TO BE NEXT JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER

No clear indication has emerged of the victor in the race to succeed Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone but political analysts said it was becoming more likely that former foreign minister Shintaro Abe would be chosen. A decision on which of the three contenders would be picked was expected late today or early on Tuesday, they said. Japanese political leaders held a flurry of closed-door meetings today and the three candidates called on Nakasone, who is due to step down late this month, to mediate to break the deadlock. The other candidates are Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and former Finance Minister Noboru Takeshita. They are vying for the post of president of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), who is automatically prime minister by virtue of the party's parliamentary majority. The new LDP president will be named formally at a party convention on October 30 and elected prime minister by parliament, probably on November 6, LDP sources said. Nakasone, 69, is due to retire on October 31 after five years in the post, an exceptionally long term by Japanese standards. Takeshita, who is head of the party's largest faction, had steadfastly opposed the idea of seeking Nakasone's help, but he told reporters: "It is possible Nakasone will be given carte blanche (for selection of his successor)." One political analyst, who declined to be identified, said Nakasone, despite a personal preference for Miyazawa, is likely to choose Abe as the best candidate for steering Japan through its international problems and maintaining party unity. Abe also would also accept Nakasone's influence, he said. Analysts said one of Nakasone's prime aims is to retain as much power as possible following his retirement. Takeshita, the early favorite because of the size of his faction, is viewed by many politicians and analysts as being unsuitable for the post of prime minister because of his lack of international experience. The analysts said Nakasone also was very unlikely to support Takeshita's bid because of the differences in their political styles. REUTER 
JAPAN/INDIA CONFERENCE CUTS GULF WAR RISK CHARGES

The Japan/India-Pakistan-Gulf/Japan shipping conference said it would cut the extra risk insurance surcharges on shipments to Iranian and Iraqi ports to a minimum three pct from 4.5 pct on October 25. It said surcharges on shipments of all break-bulk cargoes to non-Iraqi Arab ports would be reduced to 3.0 pct from 4.5. A conference spokesman declined to say why the move was taken at a time of heightened tension in the Gulf. REUTER 
