GULF BOND, STOCK MARKETS LAG BEHIND, GIB SAYS

Gulf money markets have grown reasonably well during the past decade, but bond and stock markets remain to a large extent fragmented and lag behind, <Gulf International Bank BSC> (GIB) said. The bank's economist Henry Azzam said in a review of Gulf capital markets that investors have to relinquish traditional investment vehicles such as real estate, foreign currency bank accounts and precious metals. "Greater financial sophistication is needed coupled with more diversified capital market instruments and a change in the disclosure requirements on company accounts," he said. The GIB study reviewed capital markets under three categories -- money markets, stock and bond markets. Azzam said Gulf states had been making greater use of short-term money market instruments and banks in the region had floated various euronotes and underwriting facilities. "Nevertheless, bond and stock markets remain, to a large extent, fragmented and lagging behind," he said. Most debt in the region is still raised by syndicated loans and bank facilities and very few companies had made use of stock or bond issues. Only Kuwait has an official stock exchange, while other Gulf nations have yet to establish exchanges. But with dwindling financial surpluses in the Gulf, governments are actively pursuing ways to develop capital markets and set up domestic stock exchanges, Azzam said. He said recession stemming from sliding oil prices had "clearly had a negative impact on the development of capital markets in the region." In addition, family firms are reluctant to go public, financial awareness among investors is still lacking and investment analysis and corporate reporting standards lack depth. A sharp fall in share prices in the early 1980s prompted investors to hold on to shares hoping for an eventual recovery. Azzam said the absence of proper commercial law in some Gulf countries and authorities' apparent reluctance to adopt financial innovations had also hampered capital markets. He called for clearly defined laws governing incorporation of joint stock companies and the flotation of debt instruments. Azzam said capital market instruments should be made available to all citizens and institutions of Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states -- Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Some moves had been taken in this direction, with Bahrain allowing GCC nationals to own up to 25 pct of locally incorporated companies. Azzam said Gulf money markets had received greater depth from the introduction of treasury bill offerings in Bahrain and the expansion of securities repurchase regulations in Saudi Arabia. But he added there is "no bond market to speak of" in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman or the UAE, with the last Saudi riyal denominated bond issued in 1978. While Bahrain plans an official stock exchange and trading in Saudi Arabia has picked up, establishment of formal exchanges in Qatar, Oman and the UAE does not appear imminent, Azzam said. REUTER 
ZAMBIA TO RETAIN CURRENCY AUCTION, SAYS KAUNDA

Zambia will retain its foreign-exchange auction system despite the suspension of weekly auctions since January 24, President Kenneth Kaunda said. "We have not run away from the auction. It hasn't been abolished at all," he told Reuters in an interview. He said the system would be reintroduced after current talks with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund and, he hoped, would be backed by fresh foreign aid funds. Kaunda dismissed central bank statements the new auction system would be used to allocate foreign exchange to private bidders but not to fix the exchange rate. Kaunda said the auction system had faltered because of the government's shortage of foreign exchange to meet demand. It was suspended when the kwacha's rapid devaluation and strong fluctuations made economic planning almost impossible for the government and the private sector, he said. Weekly foreign-exchange auctions began in October 1985. The kwacha fell from 2.20 to the dollar to about 15 in 16 months. In January 1987 the government was more than two months in arrears in paying foreign currency to successful bidders, and the auction was suspended and replaced with a fixed exchange rate of nine kwacha to the dollar. REUTER 
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.8 BILLION GUILDERS

The Dutch Central Bank said it has accepted bids totalling 4.8 billion guilders at tender for new seven-day special advances at 5.3 pct covering the period March 2 to 9 aimed at relieving money market tightness. Subscriptions to 300 mln guilders were met in full, amounts above 300 mln at 50 pct. The new facility replaces old five-day advances worth 8.0 billion guilders at the same rate. Dealers expect this week's money market shortage to be around 12 billion guilders. Reuter 
FED SETS 1.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



PHILIPPINE PLANNING CHIEF URGES PESO DEVALUATION

The Philippines must devalue the peso if it wants its exports to remain competitive, Economic Planning Secretary Solita Monsod told Reuters. "The peso/dollar rate has to be undercut to make our exports more competitive," Monsod said an interview. "No question about it. I'm saying you cannot argue with success. Taiwan, South Korea, West Germany, Japan, all those miracle economies deliberately undervalued their currencies." The peso has been free-floating since June 1984. It is currently at about 20.50 to the U.S. Dollar. Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin has said the government does not intend to devalue the peso and wants it to be flexible and able to continue to respond to market conditions. Monsod said Ongpin was looking at the exchange rate from the point of view of finance. "If the dollar rate goes higher, our debt service in terms of pesos gets higher, so the financing is very difficult," she said. "But I am looking at it in terms of the economy." She said she was not trying to oppose official policy. "I'm just saying, keep it competitive. I do not want it to become uncompetitive because then we are dead." Monsod said, "The ideal movement in the peso/dollar rate is a movement that will reflect differences in inflation (rates) of the Philippines versus the other country. It's an arithmetic thing." Official figures show Philippine inflation averaged 0.8 pct in calendar 1986. Ongpin told reporters on Saturday it was expected to touch five pct this year. He said the government and the International Monetary Fund had set the peso/dollar 1987 target rate at 20.80. The peso lost 22.2 pct in value to slump to 18.002 to the dollar when it was floated in 1984. REUTER 
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSIT RATES EASE

Saudi riyal interbank deposit rates eased across the board in a dull market which was long in day-to-day funds, dealers said. Today's quiet market continued a lull of several days in which traders were said to be waiting on the sidelines ahead of further clues to the direction of oil prices and the Saudi economy. Dealers cited some borrowing interest in two, three, and six-month deposits but said activity focused on short dates and one-month deposits as banks tried to lend surplus funds. Spot-next was put at 5-3/4, 5-1/4 pct, down from six, 5-1/2 yesterday while one-week rates were steady at six, 5-1/2 pct. One-month deposits declined to 6-1/4, 1/8 pct from 6-1/2, 1/4 on Monday, while three months was barely changed at seven, 6-15/16 pct. The spot riyal was little changed at 3.7501/03 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7498/7501 yesterday. REUTER 
DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT BARELY CHANGED IN WEEK

Loans and advances from the Dutch central bank to the commercial banks were barely changed at 12.9 billion guilders in the week up to and including March 2, the central bank weekly return showed. The Treasury's account with the bank dropped 1.3 billion guilders. Dealers said a larger amount of funds in the form of interest and repayments on state loans went out than came in the form of tax payments to the state. Notes in circulation rose 360 mln to 27.7 billion as the public withdrew cash to celebrate this week's Carnival festival or take an end-of-winter holiday break, dealers said. Current money market rates are at 5-3/4 to 6-1/4 pct for call money against 5-1/4 to 5-3/8 a week ago, and between 5-5/16 and 5-9/16 pct against 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 for one to 12 month periods, dealers said. The cause for the rise was a rather tight 4.8 billion guilders of special advances set by the Bank yesterday compared with 8.0 billion guilders for the previous set, dealers added. They expect the money market shortage to continue around 12 billion guilders this week. The weekly return showed total Dutch gold and currency reserves rose 11.3 mln guilders to 56.0 billion guilders. REUTER 
SWISS MONEY MARKET PAPER YIELDS 3.286 PCT

The Swiss Federal Government's new series of six-month money market certificates raised 177.5 mln Swiss francs at an issue price of 98.401 pct to give an average annual yield of 3.286 pct, the National Bank said. Payment date is March 5. The last series of six-month paper issued in January raised 159.6 mln francs at 98.392 pct to give an average yield of 3.251 pct. REUTER 
U.S. TREASURY DEPUTY ASST SECRETARY BERGER SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR DROP COULD CAUSE INFLATION



N. ZEALAND MARKETS PREPARE FOR TRADING BANK STRIKE

New Zealand clearing house <DataBank Systems Ltd> said it will know tomorrow what services it will be able to provide during a strike by bank officers against trading banks and DataBank set for March 9 and 10. Trading banks polled by Reuters said their ability to offer money market services during the strike depends on whether Databank remains open, and whether the banks have enough staff to process transactions. A spokesman for the New Zealand Foreign Exchange Association said dealers would be able to trade during the strike. But the spokesman added that from March 6 to 10 the value date of currency transactions will be March 16. Trading bank spokesmen told Reuters they will try to honour transactions in which an offshore party sought payment on March 9 or 10, but they could not guarantee settlement. The Futures Exchange said trading members and their clients will be able to continue trading provided they have made suitable financial arrangements. The trading banks affected are the <Bank of New Zealand>, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S>, Westpac Banking Corp <WSTP.S> and <National Bank of New Zealand Ltd>. REUTER 
NIGERIAN CURRENCY FIRMS AT LATEST AUCTION

The Nigerian naira firmed 2.6 pct against the dollar after 17 banks were disqualified from bidding at today's weekly foreign exchange auction, the central bank said. The naira finished at 3.8050 to the dollar, against 3.9050 last week. Only 38.39 mln dlrs of the 50 mln dlrs on offer was sold, with all 27 bidding banks successfully obtaining hard currency. The effective rate, including a central bank levy, for transactions in the coming week, was 3.8241 against 3.9246 last week. The failure to sell the whole allocation was due to the central bank's unprecedented disqualification of 17 banks as punishment for inadequate documentation in previous transactions. Banks are required to submit proof that their bids are based on valid commercial transactions and the central bank has complained in the past that many are failing to produce the right paperwork within the specified time. REUTER 
FRENCH INTERVENTION RATE CUT LIKELY, DEALERS SAY

The Bank of France is likely to cut its money market intervention rate by up to a quarter point at the start of next week. This follows a steady decline in the call money rate over the past 10 days and signals from the Finance Ministry that the time is ripe for a fall, dealers said. The call money rate peaked at just above nine pct ahead of the meeting of finance ministers from the Group of Five industrial countries and Canada on February 22, which restored considerable stability to foreign exchanges after several weeks of turbulence. The call money rate dropped to around 8-3/8 pct on February 23, the day after the Paris accord, and then edged steadily down to eight pct on February 27 and 7-3/4 pct on March 3, where it has now stabilised. Dealers said the Bank of France intervened to absorb liquidity to hold the rate at 7-3/4 pct. While call money has dropped by well over a percentage point, the Bank of France's money market intervention rate has remained unchanged since January 2, when it was raised to eight pct from 7-1/4 pct in a bid to stop a franc slide. The seven-day repurchase rate has also been unchanged at 8-3/4 since it was raised by a half-point on January 5. The Bank of France has begun using the seven-day repurchase rate to set an upper indicator for money market rates, while using the intervention rate to set the floor. Sources close to Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said that he would be happy to see an interest rate cut, and dealers said any fall in the intervention rate was most likely to come when the Bank of France buys first category paper next Monday, although an earlier cut could not be excluded. A cut in the seven-day repurchase rate could come as early as tomorrow morning, banking sources said. They said recent high interest rates have encouraged an acceleration in foreign funds returning to France, discouraging the authorities from making a hasty rate cut. But they also pointed out that money supply is broadly back on target, giving scope for a small fall in rates. M-3 money supply, the government's key aggregate, finished 1986 within the government's three to five pct growth target, rising 4.6 pct compared with seven pct in 1985. REUTER 
SWISS OFFERS NEW SERIES OF MONEY MARKET PAPER

The Swiss Finance Ministry is inviting tenders for a new series of three-month money market certificates to raise about 150 mln Swiss francs, the Swiss National Bank said. Bids would be due on March 10 and payment on March 12. The last issue of three-month paper conducted on February 12 yielded 2.969 pct. REUTER 
EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED

Egypt's Central Bank today set the dollar rate for commercial banks for March 6 at 1.373/87 dollars, unchanged from the previous rate. REUTER 
U.S. COMMERCE DEPT'S ORTNER SAYS YEN IS 10 OR 15 PCT UNDERVALUED



U.S. COMMERCE DEPT'S  ORTNER SAYS DOLLAR FAIRLY PRICED AGAINST EUROPEAN CURRENCIES



FED'S JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR IS VERY CLOSE TO APPROPRIATE EXCHANGE RATE LEVEL 



NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES ANNOUNCED AT 5.3 PCT

The Dutch central bank announced new eleven-day special advances at an unchanged 5.3 pct to aid money market liquidity, covering the period March 9 to 20. The amount will be set at tender on Monday March 9 between 0800 and 0830 GMT. The new facility will replace the current 4.8 billion guilders of seven-day advances expiring Monday. Money dealers estimated today's money market shortage at 11 to 11.25 billion guilders, barely changed from yesterday. They said call money was still relatively high at 6-1/8 to 6-1/4 pct as a result of the tight set of bids accepted by the Bank for the previous seven-day facility. REUTER 
FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



FRENCH PRIMARY BOND MARKET SHOWS NEW SPARKLE

The French primary bond market is showing signs of renewed effervescence after several weeks of lethargy and the trend is expected to continue if hopes of imminent interest rate cuts are fulfilled, market operators said. The Bank of France is generally expected to give a signal to the market, possibly at the beginning of next week, by announcing a quarter point cut in its intervention rate, which has stood at eight pct since January 2, or in its seven-day repurchase rate, set at 8-3/4 pct since January 5. The central bank's averaged-out day to day call money rate, the reference rate for interbank money market operators, which reached 8-3/4 pct on February 18 has fallen to 7-3/4 pct this week, dealers noted. The Bank of France's "open market" policy to regulate the money markets since December has been based on a floor and ceiling of rates within the limits of its intervention and seven day repurchase rates. For the moment the sentiment is of "wait and see" on rate cuts, but there are now more optimists than pessimists among market operators, a dealer for a major French bank said. Dealers said there is abundant liquidity on the bond market, noting that this week's monthly Treasury tap issue of 11.87 billion francs had a good reception and was fairly easily absorbed. The Treasury had set an upper limit on the issue of 12 billion francs and was likely to continue to try and sell as much paper as it could over coming months to meet its borrowing needs for this year of around 150 billion, one banker said. Dealers said there was no difficulty in placing liquidity in the primary market at the moment despite competition from the surge in investments on the Paris stock exchange. There has been a flood of large bond issues, but with formulas well adapted to market conditions and investor demand - with warrants or a mix of fixed and floating-rates - which have been snapped up, and with generally broadly negative fees. Dealers pointed to the recent Caisse d'Aide a l'Equipement des Collectivites Locales (CAECL) 8.90 pct two billion franc bond with warrants exchangeable for floating-rate bonds issued over 13 years and 80 days at 97.04 pct with payment date March 9, which was today quoted at -0.90 to -1.10 pct. Even classic fixed-rate issues, after being neglected since the end of last year, are finding buyers, one banker said. Dealers said that now the question was to see how the terms of imminent operations would be set, with great market interest focussed on the likely three next issues. These will include an expected four to five billion franc issue for Electricite de France, to be followed by a bond of around one billion francs for Auxiliaire du Credit Foncier, a subsidiary of the banking group Credit Foncier de France, and a new issue by tender from the mortgage agency Caisse de Refinancement Hypothecaire. REUTER 
YIELD FALLS ON 30-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS

The yield on 30-day bankers security deposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA) fell to 5.84073 pct from 6.21950 last Saturday, bankers said. SAMA increased the offer price on the 900 mln riyal issue to 99.51563 from 99.48438. One-month interbank riyal deposits were quoted today at 6-1/4, six pct. SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals each week in 30, 91 and 180-day paper to banks in the Kingdom. REUTER 
ASIAN DOLLAR ASSETS EXCEED 200 BILLION DLRS

The Asian dollar market continued to expand in December with total assets and liabilities rising to 200.60 billion U.S. Dlrs from 188.54 billion in November and 155.37 billion in December 1985, the Monetary Authority of Singapore said. It said the increase came mainly from interbank activity, with interbank lending rising to 146.61 billion dlrs in December from 134.76 billion in November and 104.93 billion in December 1985. Interbank deposits increased to 158.52 billion dlrs against 147.95 billion and 120.03 billion, respectively. Loans to non-bank customers increased in December to 38.74 billion dlrs from 38.64 billion in November and 37.44 billion in December 1985. Deposits by non-bank customers rose to 33.81 billion dlrs against 33.60 billion and 28.02 billion. REUTER 
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 6.5 BILLION GUILDERS

The Dutch central bank said it has accepted bids totalling 6.5 billion guilders at tender for new eleven-day special advances at 5.3 pct covering the period March 9 to 20 aimed at relieving money market tightness. Subscriptions to 500 mln guilders were met in full, amounts above 500 mln at 35 pct. The new facility replaces old seven-day advances worth 4.8 billion guilders at the same rate. REUTER 
BANK OF FRANCE SETS MONEY MARKET TENDER

The Bank of France said it invited offers of first category paper today for a money market intervention tender. Money market dealers said conditions seemed right for the Bank to cut its intervention rate at the tender by a quarter percentage point to 7-3/4 pct from eight, reflecting an easing in call money rate last week, and the French franc's steadiness on foreign exchange markets since the February 22 currency stabilisation accord here by the Group of Five and Canada. Intervention rate was last raised to eight pct from 7-1/4 on January 2. Call money today was quoted at 7-11/16 7-3/4 pct. REUTER 
 Bank of France said it cut money market intervention rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct



BANK OF FRANCE CUTS INTERVENTION RATE

The Bank of France said it cut its money market intervention rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct when it injected money against first category paper. The bank also cut its seven-day repossession rate to 8-1/2 pct from 8-3/4 pct. The intervention rate has stood at eight pct since it was raised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 as the French franc came under pressure ahead of the EMS realignment on January 11. The bank said the purchase, effective tomorrow, is for five pct of private paper and fixed rate Treasury bills maturing between March 25 and June 25 and of other Treasury bills maturing between March 25, 1987 and March 25, 1989. The rate cut had been expected since the bank announced a money market intervention tender earlier today. Money market dealers said conditions seemed right for a quarter percentage point cut, reflecting an easing in the call money rate last week, and the French franc's steadiness on foreign exchange markets since the February 22 currency stabilisation accord here by the Group of Five and Canada. REUTER 
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES

The Turkish Central Bank set a Lira/Dollar rate for March 10 of 773.05/776.92 to the Dollar, down from the previous 769.60/773.45. The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 417.20/419.29 to the Mark, up from the previous 419.15/421.25. 
FED SETS 2.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



BANK OF ZAMBIA PAYS OUT FOREIGN CURRENCY ARREARS

The Bank of Zambia has paid out foreign exchange arrears from three auctions conducted last year, a bank spokesman said. "We have now cleared three auctions and are left with only four, worth eight mln dlrs," the spokesman said without specifying the amount paid out. The bank had not paid foreign exchange to private firms since it suspended the weekly auctions on January 28. It has said the auctions were suspended because it planned to introduce a modified system after talks with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. President Kenneth Kaunda announced last month that the auction would be retained for allocating foreign exchange to approved private sector bidders, but would not be used to determine the kwacha's exchange rate. Last week, he said the auction had run into trouble because of a shortage of foreign exchange. The government has fixed the exchange rate at nine kwacha per dollar, effectively revaluing the kwacha by 67.7 pct. REUTER 
CENTRAL BANKERS SATISFIED WITH PARIS ACCORD

Central bankers said they were generally satisfied with the response to the Paris accord two weeks ago to stabilize currencies at around current levels. Speaking after a meeting at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), which reviewed the agreement, they also welcomed interest rates cuts in France and today's drop in British rates. One top official said the rate cuts would help to stimulate growth generally in Europe and welcomed that countries other than West Germany were seen to be helping sustain the economy. The central bankers, who spoke on the condition they not be named, said the meeting of governors from the Group of 10 countries also heard a report from Michel Camdessus, the new managing director of the International Monetary Fund, on the IMF's latest assessment of the debt crisis. In particular, they discussed Brazil's debt moratorium. But there was no sense of urgency, they said, and Brazil had made no appeal for bridging loans from the BIS or central banks. Reuter 
WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN

A confidential World Bank report on the Peruvian economy has said the government's strategy does not offer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and is likely to lead to an early renewal of inflationary pressure. The report, published today by the economic monthly, The Peru Report, said the success of president Alan Garcia's government in stimulating output last year to achieve a growth in gross domestic product of over eight pct "represents gains in the short term at the expense of the long." Government officials had no immediate comment on the report, which advised a reduction in the overall size of the public investment program and greater emphasis on the preservation of Peru's export potential. The report said that although the government had succeeded in cutting inflation from 250 pct a year in the first half of 1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivation program was encountering rising difficulties. "An early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked to monetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing of price controls, appears not improbable," it added. The world bank report said the government's policies had reduced inflation and short-term increases in consumption at the apparent cost of price distortions, overvaluation of the currency, balance of payments disequilibrium, reserve losses, and sharply diminished creditworthiness. It said unless the government took action quickly to fix a competitive exchange rate and control the public sector deficit, "the higher the probability will be that the government will eventually have to resort to drastic curtailment of domestic demand and either sharp devaluation or still further controls on imports in order to stem inflation and support the balance of payments." It said the bank would place more emphasis on the preservation of peru's export potential, external links and overall economic efficiency. The government's incentive policies towards the mining and petroleum sectors, among its main traditional exports, suggested that it did not accord high priority to their economic viability, it added. Reuter 
AUSTRALIAN RESERVE BANK IN BUYING INTERVENTION

The Reserve Bank said at 1230 local time it was offering to buy short-dated government securities in the short-term money market. The bank's action followed its purchase of short-dated government stock and six-day repurchase agreements earlier in the session. Money market traders said the move was aimed at easing cash market interest rates which had risen on demand for funds to meet PAYE tax and treasury note settlement commitments. REUTER 
CHINA ALLOWS NATIONWIDE FOREIGN EXCHANGE SAVING

People throughout China can now open foreign exchange accounts at the Bank of China, the official Shenzhen Economic Zone Daily said. Previously only residents of Guangdong and Fujian provinces could do this. The paper also said the minimum for opening a fixed deposit account had been cut to 50 yuan equivalent, from 150 yuan. The minimum for a current account is 20 yuan equivalent. The paper said depositors could now withdraw all or part of their account, subject to a branch's reserves, instead of only a fixed amount as previously. The paper said deposits may now be opened in French francs as well as the already available U.S. Dollar, Hong Kong dollar, sterling, yen and marks. Bank of China branches in Hainan island also accept deposits in Singapore dollars, and those in Wenzhou, Zhejiang province, accept deposits in Dutch guilders, the paper said. It gave no further details. REUTER 
HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS

Hungary is to devalue the forint by an average of eight pct against Western currencies, the official news agency MTI said. MTI did not say when the devaluation would become effective, but it expected new rates to be announced later today. Hungary devalued the forint by a similar amount last September 23. Western bankers say the forint is more realistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECON allies. REUTER 
BELGIAN CENTRAL BANK BUYS CURRENCY TO REPAY DEBT

The Belgian National Bank bought foreign currencies against francs on the open market in the week ended March 9, a Bank spokesman said. In line with central bank policy he declined to give any details of the amount bought. The foreign currency purchased was used by the Treasury to repay foreign debt and did not affect the Bank's foreign exchange reserves. They slipped 394 mln francs to 37.33 billion, mostly due to sales of dollars for Special Drawing Rights, the spokesman said. REUTER 
INDONESIAN BANKS RAISE INTEREST RATES

A tight money market has pushed interest rates on three to six month time deposits to between 15 and 18 pct from 13 to 15 pct a month ago, bankers said. March is usually a tight month for the money market because of tax payments and banks' need to attract funds for their year-end accounts on March 31. This year the situation has been made worse by December's rush to buy dollars by companies and businessmen who feared imposition of exchange controls. Much of that outflow has yet to be converted back into rupiah. "A lot of small money has come back in, but the big money is holding out until after April," one U.S. Banker said. The tight money policy of Bank Indonesia, the central bank, is helping to keep rates high. Short-term lending rates now average 25 pct a year, with no prospect they will be lowered soon, the bankers said. Central Bank governor Arifin Siregar said earlier this week that Indonesia could look forward to better economic prospects in 1987/88, but added the "speculators" who led a run on the rupiah late last year could again pose problems. Indonesia holds general elections on April 23, the first in five years, and most businessmen expect no new government economic packages or incentives before then. "Some people are nervous about what the government will do after the election," one banker said. "They normally try to do things before the IGGI (Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia) meeting (in June) to prove they are doing something about the economy to show they deserve a couple of billion dollars." The IGGI, which groups 14 industrialised donor countries and four agencies, gave Indonesia 2.5 billion dlrs in soft loans and grants last year. REUTER 
HUNGARY TO DEVALUE FORINT AGAINST WESTERN UNITS

Hungary is to devalue the forint by an average of eight pct against Western currencies, the official news agency MTI said. MTI did not say when the devaluation would become effective, but it expected new rates to be announced later today. Hungary devalued the forint by a similar amount last September 23. Western bankers say the forint is more realistically valued than currencies of Hungary's COMECON allies. REUTER 
SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS FALL 2.88 BILLION FRANCS

Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank fell 2.88 billion Swiss francs in the first 10 days of March to 7.65 billion, the National Bank said. Foreign exchange reserves rose 3.30 billion francs to 33.94 billion. Sight deposits are a major indicator of money market liquidity in Switzerland. The National Bank said banks paid back 5.5 billion francs of central bank credit taken out at the end of February for the end-month liquidity requirement. This drain was offset in part by new currency swaps, which had the effect of increasing the National Bank's foreign exchange holdings. Bank notes in circulation fell 309.1 mln francs to 24.49 billion, and other deposits on call -- basically government funds -- rose 1.06 billion to 2.10 billion. REUTER 
HUNGARY HOPES DEVALUATION WILL END TRADE DEFICIT

National Bank of Hungary first vice-president Janos Fekete said he hoped a planned eight pct devaluation of the forint will spur exports and redress last year's severe trade deficit with the West. Fekete told Reuters in an interview Hungary must achieve at least equilibrium on its hard currency trade. "It is useful to have a devaluation," he said. "There is now a real push to our exports and a bit of a curb to our imports." The official news agency MTI said today Hungary would devalue by eight pct and it expected the new rates to be announced later today. Fekete said the rates would come into effect tomorrow. He said one reason for the devaluation was that Hungary had a higher rate of inflation over the past two years than its main partners (around eight pct in 1985 and between five and 5.5 pct in 1986). This was partly an after-effect of action Hungary took to prevent inflation from soaring during the oil price shocks of the 1970s, he added. Hungary devalued by a similar amount last September and by between three and four pct early last year. But the country's hard currency trade balance nevertheless fell into a deficit of 539.4 mln dlrs from a surplus of 295.3 mln in 1986 and 1.2 billion in 1985. Fekete said Hungary was hoping for a hard currency trade surplus of between 200 and 300 mln dlrs this year, but that a more likely outcome would be closer to equilibrium on total hard currency trade of around 10 billion dlrs. One Western commercial attache here said: "Devaluation of itself will not change anything. It will only be useful if they also make efforts to restructure industry and improve the quality of their export goods." Fekete said he hoped to raise credits on good terms this year to invest in restructuring industry. It would be his role to persuade international banks to cooperate in this process. He noted Hungary had been given an AA rating enabling it to raise money on the Japanese Samurai bond market. Hungary's net hard currency debt soared to 7.79 billion dlrs last year from 5.01 billion in 1985, partly because of a current account deficit of 1.42 billion dlrs and partly because the fall in the dollar increased the dollar value of debt denominated in marks or yen. He said he feared net debt would also rise slightly this year, but he was in favour of borrowing for the purpose of modernisation. "I am for credits to invest for that purpose," he said. "I am against credits for consumption." He forecast gross domestic product growth of two pct this year, from one pct in 1986. Fekete said Hungary would continue to restructure its debt profile by prepaying high interest shorter and medium term loans with cheaper long term money for which it was looking more and more to the fixed interest rate bond market, where he considered rates to be low. Hard currency foreign exchange reserves would stay at around 3.5 billion dlrs, he said. On the budget deficit, which tripled to a provisional 47 billion forints last year after quadrupling in 1985, Fekete said the finance ministry was working out measures to reduce an approved target deficit for this year of 43.8 billion forints to between 30 and 35 billion forints. REUTER 
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



BANKERS OPPOSE STRICT TAIWAN CURRENCY CONTROLS

Taiwan imposed currency controls today in what bankers called a desperate move to prevent speculation as the Taiwan dollar appreciated against the U.S. currency. The strict controls will require proof that large remittances to Taiwan are connected to commercial transactions rather than currency speculation. Bankers attacked the controls as ineffective, saying they were a panic reaction to pressure from Washington for faster appreciation of the Taiwan currency against the U.S. dollar, which would slow exports to the United States. Remittances exceeding one mln dlrs earned through exports, shipping, insurance or bank lending will now need government approval, along with remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs from any other source. Reuter 
FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS



Miyazawa says current dollar/yen rate not necessarily satisfactory



FRANCE REPAYS SOME OF CURRENCY INTERVENTION DEBT

France today repaid 21.95 billion francs of short-term currency intervention debt to the European Monetary Cooperation Fund, EMCF, the Finance Ministry said. It said the debt was part of a 33.90 billion franc liability incurred through the activation of EMCF swap facilities to defend the franc before the January 11 European Monetary System realignment. The realignment, following several weeks of speculative pressure, produced a three pct revaluation of the West German mark and the Dutch guilder against the French franc and a two pct revaluation of the Belgian franc. REUTER 
PERU BEGINS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATIONING

Peru will put into effect Monday a foreign exchange rationing system for imports designed to stop a slide in the country's international reserves, a government decree in the Official Gazette said. Under the system, importers will be required to present a bill from the foreign seller of goods and apply for a license for foreign exchange. The central bank will have 10 days to decide whether to issue the required foreign exchange. Net international reserves now total about 800 mln dlrs compared to 1.54 billion dlrs a year ago. The system will be effective until the end of 1988. A ceiling for foreign exchange availability will be set by a council with members from the central bank, the economy ministry and the planning and foreign trade institutes. The central bank will issue licenses to procure foreign exchange in accordance with guidelines set by the council. Peru's reserves fell sharply due to a drop in the trade surplus to about five mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.1 billion in 1985, according to preliminary central bank estimates. Total exports dropped to 2.50 billion dlrs last year against 2.97 billion in 1985. Imports last year rose sharply as gross domestic product grew by about 8.5 pct, the highest economic growth level registered in 12 years. Imports were about 2.49 billion dlrs in 1986 against 1.87 billion in 1985, according to preliminary estimates. The cushion of reserves allowed Peru to take a hard-line debt stance last year and suspend most payments due on its 14.3 billion dlr foreign debt. REUTER 
ZAMBIA, IMF TALKS HIT PROBLEMS OVER FOOD SUBSIDIES

Zambia's talks with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a financial rescue package have run into difficulties on the issue of food subsidies, an official newspaper said. The Times of Zambia, which is run by the ruling United National Independence Party (UNIP), quoted official sources as saying the IMF and World Bank had refused to continue financing food subsidies and were pressing the government to explain how it proposes to pay for them. President Kenneth Kaunda tried to abolish maize subsidies last December, in line with IMF recommendations, but the move caused maize meal prices to double overnight and led to riots in which 15 people were killed. The subsidies were immediately restored as part of moves to quell the disturbances, but they are estimated to cost the government about 500 mln kwacha per year. The Times of Zambia said another major issue in the government's current talks with the IMF and World Bank was the remodelling of Zambia's foreign exchange auction. The central bank's weekly auction of foreign exchange to the private sector has been suspended since the end of January, pending modifications to slow down the rate of devaluation and dampen fluctuations in the exchange rate. The kwacha slid to around 15 per dollar under the auction system, losing 85 pct of its value in 16 months. However, since the end of January it has been revalued to a fixed rate of nine per dollar. Banking sources said Zambia was persuaded by the World Bank and IMF to lift its proposed ceiling of 12.50 kwacha per dollar on the currency's devaluation once the auctions restart. According to the Times of Zambia, the IMF team, led by assistant director for Africa Paul Acquah, is due to conclude its talks with the government on schedule on March 23. The IMF mission arrived in Lusaka on February 26 and its talks with the government have taken longer than expected. REUTER 
TREASURY, FOREIGN RESERVES ARE JORDAN'S PRIORITIES

Jordan's key economic priorities are having a sound national treasury and adequate foreign exchange reserves, Prime Minister Zeid al-Rifa'i said. "First, the national treasury should be in sound shape when dealing with the public and other countries so that its credibility is preserved," he said in a television interview Saturday. "The second priority is to maintain an acceptable level of foreign exchange reserves to provide (the) stability and confidence needed by the government to meet foreign commitments." Rifa'i said Jordan's outstanding government-guaranteed and commercial loans total 902 mln dinars with a debt service ratio of 14.9 pct. The figure was sharply lower than the 1.02 billion dinars in outstanding loans at the end of September, according to latest Central Bank figures. Rifa'i dismissed the view of some bankers and economists here that the dinar, which is pegged to a basket of currencies, is overvalued. "The dinar is strong and stable and we intend to preserve its stability," he said. The prime minister said he hoped the next Arab summit would tackle the question of continuing financial aid to Jordan. Under a 10-year agreement reached in 1978, Jordan was to receive a total of 1.25 billion dlrs annually from Algeria, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to help it resist Israel. But only Saudi Arabia met its obligations, while the others failed because of falling income due to lower oil prices. REUTER 
PERU BEGINS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATIONING

Peru will put into effect today a foreign exchange rationing system for imports designed to stop a slide in the country's international reserves, a government decree in the Official Gazette said. Under the system, importers will be required to present a bill from the foreign seller of goods and apply for a license for foreign exchange. The central bank will have 10 days to decide whether to issue the required foreign exchange. Net international reserves now total about 800 mln dlrs compared to 1.54 billion dlrs a year ago. The system will be effective until the end of 1988. A ceiling for foreign exchange availability will be set by a council with members from the central bank, the economy ministry and the planning and foreign trade institutes. The central bank will issue licenses to procure foreign exchange in accordance with guidelines set by the council. Peru's reserves fell sharply due to a drop in the trade surplus to about five mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.1 billion in 1985, according to preliminary central bank estimates. Total exports dropped to 2.50 billion dlrs last year against 2.97 billion in 1985. Reuter 
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT - OFFICIAL



ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EMS MARKS EIGHTH BIRTHDAY

The European Monetary System marks its eighth anniversary still vulnerable to turmoil in world money markets despite creating an island of currency rate stability in Europe, economists say. But many economists say the system, which holds eight European Community currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, remains in its infancy. Its new currency, the European Currency Unit (Ecu), has been a runaway success with investors and borrowers alike seeking an alternative to the volatile dollar. And on Wednesday, the long term vision of the Ecu as Europe's common currency took a step nearer to becoming reality when Belgium minted the world's first Ecu coin. But economists say members such as West Germany have so far blocked a second stage of development envisaged by the system's founding fathers, ex-West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing. Under this phase, originally due to have started two years after the EMS was set up, decision-making was to have been transferred from national governments and central banks to an autonomous European Monetary Fund. But members have jealously guarded their sovereignty in economic and monetary matters. "The basic problem of the EMS is that governments are not prepared to make the quantum leap to a situation where certain decisions are taken in common," said one economist who has closely watched the system's development. The result is that the EC is often divided over policy on third currencies, accentuating what the economists say is the system's greatest weakness, its vulnerability to a weak dollar. Over the past 18 months, as the U.S. Dollar plunged and investors moved into strong currencies, the resulting sharp rise of the West German mark severely strained the system. Another frustration has been Britain's failure to lend the EMS political support by keeping the pound, still a major world currency, outside the system. No change in the British government's attitude is expected before the country's next general elections, due by mid-1988. Meanwhile, the system's last realignment, the 11th since it was set up, prompted European finance ministers to ask the EC's highly-secretive Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors to come up with suggestions for reinforcing it. Their ideas are due to be unveiled when finance ministers hold an informal meeting in Belgium early next month. But economists said the proposals are unlikely to involve more than tinkering with technical details. They are sceptical about the chances for any fundamental change. "Technical measures won't be enough to protect the EMS against external factors such as dollar weakness. For that we must take the step forward to the institutional level," said Leo de Corel of Kredietbank's economic research department. Economists say the system's fortunes now will depend largely on the success of an agreement last month among major industrial nations to stabilise exchange rates. If the dollar resumes its slide the EMS could be in for more turbulence, they predict. REUTER 
SPAIN TO RELAX EXCHANGE CONTROLS

The Bank of Spain is relaxing exchange controls to help put Spanish banks on an equal footing with European Community competitors by the 1993 deadline for the ending of restrictions, a central bank spokesman said. "The measures to take effect by June were designed to lift restrictions on foreign currency operations, in line with deregulation in the banking industry," he said in a telephone interview. The spokesman said the relaxation of exchange controls highlighted a broader package of reforms announced last Friday. The central bank said in a statement the measures included increased provisions for high-risk borrowers and a provision for future pension fund obligations. It said the measures were the latest steps to deregulate Spain's financial sector, a move triggered by entry into the Community last year. Spain has five years to complete bank deregulation, a process that began in 1978 when the government allowed foreign banks to open branches. Since then 39 foreign banks have come into the market and they now control about 15 pct of the system's lending assets. Residents in Spain can now borrow freely in foreign currency up to the equivalent of 1.5 billion pesetas against a previous ceiling of 750 mln pesetas. The 750 mln peseta limit was set last March. Between that date and the end of last year some 430 mln dlrs flowed into the country on new foreign currency loans. The central bank spokesman said operations over 1.5 billion pesetas were technically subject to authorisation, but would be given clearance if the government failed to act in 15 days. Spanish banks will also be allowed to expand their foreign currency funding, formerly obtainable through deposits, by issuing certificates of deposit, bonds and commercial paper. They can also employ these funds to invest in foreign issues, while before they had to be converted into deposits. Foreign exchange operations can be in mixed currencies, instead of having to borrow and lend in the same currency. The central bank has also lifted the restriction on the amount of foreign exchange loans, which previously were limited to three times a bank's capital equity. The latest deregulation measures were welcomed by most bankers, in contrast to rulings issued earlier this month which imposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible peseta funds held by banks and freed short term deposit rates. The reserve requirement, which was already in place on normal peseta deposits, was intended to curb short-term foreign speculative capital which is entering the country and threatening the government's money supply growth target. A foreign banker said high reserve requirements, which now account for about 30 pct of deposits, placed Spanish banks at a disadvantage with European competitors. The government reduced fixed asset investment requirements to 11 pct from 23 pct to help offset the negative impact of interest rate deregulation. "The real problem is the freeing of interest rates," the banker said. "This is going to take a big bite out of profits." The ruling lifted a six pct ceiling on interest rates paid on deposits of up to 180 days. The chairman of one of Spain's leading banks said the measure was expected to bring a 20 pct drop in profits this year. REUTER 
FED SAYS IT SETS THREE-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS



FED ADDS RESERVES VIA THREE-DAY REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange three-day System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pct when the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
MARKET WELCOMES LOWER AUSTRALIAN PAYMENTS DEFICIT

The Australian dollar rose more than 40 points and money market interest rates retreated on the better than expected improvement in the February current account deficit, but economists and dealers were cautious about identifying it as the start of a downward trend. The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs in February from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billion dlrs in 1985/86 to end-June. The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded as high as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69. "It's got 69 cents written all over it," one dealer said. Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long on the dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30 points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release. The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecasts and analysts said the market would welcome any figure below one billion dlrs for March. Banque National de Paris <BNPP.A> senior dealer Peter Nicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency and interest rates were too high for import substitution and export industries. Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875 and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow. <Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose said the 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at 2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January. But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coal exports remained poor. "We should remember we are paying something like seven to eight billion dollars simply to service our foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the near term," Buttrose said. Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mln dlrs, and added "Any figure under a billion dollars will be acceptable (to the markets)." ANZ Banking Group Ltd <ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Little said the big question was whether the improvement in exports could be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billion dlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January. Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with 90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from early highs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65. Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pct from 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday. The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers said the current account data had little impact on trading. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN CURRENCY TRADING SET RECORD IN JANUARY

Spot volume in the Australian foreign exchange market jumped to a record 22.63 billion dlrs a day in January from 16.18 billion in December and 8.27 billion a year earlier, the Reserve Bank said in its monthly bulletin. The previous record was 17.51 billion dlrs last August. The peak broke a steady trading trend of 15 to 17 billion dlrs a day seen in the second half of 1986. Including forward deals, total deliverable volume was 27.01 billion dlrs a day (13.43 billion against the Australian dollar) against 19.56 billion (8.48 billion) in December and 9.92 billion (5.88 billion) a year earlier, the bank said. REUTER 
 Danish central bank cuts overnight money market interest rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct - official



TAIWAN SAID CONSIDERING CURRENCY LIBERALISATION

Taiwan's central bank is considering proposals to ease currency restrictions to reduce foreign exchange reserves of 51 billion U.S. Dlrs, a local newspaper reported today. The China Times, which has close ties with the government, quoted central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng as saying the government had agreed in principle to liberalise financial restrictions. The bank was considering proposals to allow firms and individuals to hold foreign exchange and invest in foreign stocks for the first time, Chang was quoted as saying. All foreign exchange must now be handed to local banks and exchanged for local currency. Firms and individuals may only invest in foreign government bonds, treasury bills and certificates of deposit. Central bank and other government officials were not available to comment on the report. Economists said it was likely that the government would ease foreign exchange controls, but only gradually. They said vast foreign currency reserves, earned mainly from huge trade surpluses with the United States, made Taiwan a target for U.S. Protectionism. Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year compared with 10.2 billion in 1985. "The central bank has to go in this direction," said Su Han-min, chief economist with the International Commercial Bank of China. "If they don't quicken the pace, Washington could retaliate and really damage Taiwan." REUTER 
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



ZAMBIAN EXCHANGE AUCTION TO RESUME AT END OF MARCH

Zambia will reintroduce a modified foreign exchange auction at the end of this month as part of a new two-tier exchange rate, central bank governor Leonard Chivuno said. Chivuno told a press conference at the end of three weeks of negotiations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that there would be a fixed exchange rate for official transactions and a fluctuating rate, decided by the auction, for other types of business. The Bank of Zambia previously held weekly auctions to distribute foreign exchange to the private sector and determine the kwacha's exchange rate, but these were suspended at the end of January. President Kenneth Kaunda said at the time that he was suspending the auction system in view of the rapid devaluation and violent fluctations of the exchange rate which had resulted. Business and banking sources said another reason for suspending the auction was that the central bank was low on foreign exchange and was 10 weeks behind in paying successful bidders. The kwacha stood at 2.2 per dollar when the auction system was first introduced in October 1985, but it slid to around 15 per dollar by the time it was suspended 16 months later. Since then, Zambia has operated a fixed exchange rate of about nine kwacha per dollar. REUTER 
GULF ARAB MINISTERS DISCUSS ECONOMIC COOPERATION

Finance and economy ministers of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) opened a two- day meeting to discuss further economic integration, officials said. They said issues to be discussed by the ministers from Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) would include a recommendation by central bank governors on a common currency exchange rate. The governors agreed in January on a denominator on which to base currencies of the six states. Any decision will be forwarded for final approval to a GCC summit meeting due in Saudi Arabia late this year. The six states have different currency systems. Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar and the UAE are linked in theory to the International Monetary Fund's basket of currencies -- the special drawing right (SDR) -- but in practice to the dollar. Oman links its currency formally to the dollar, while Kuwait pegs its dinar to a trade-weighted basket devised by itself. The denominator chosen by central bank governors has not been disclosed, but some bankers expect the currencies to be linked to the SDR or a trade-weighted basket. Opening the meeting, Ahmed al-Tayer, the UAE's Minister of State for Finance and Industry, said implementation of joint economic agreements "is increasingly linking the interests of GCC citizens together." The general assembly of the Gulf Investment Corporation met in Abu Dhabi earlier under the chairmanship of Bahrain's Finance and National Economy Minister, Ibrahim Abdul-Karim The corporation was formed to contribute to joint economic and investment projects in the GCC. Officials said the corporation's assets rose to 1.31 billion dollars last year from 1.04 billion at the end of 1985. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage in the system of around 1.1 billion stg. Money market dealers speculated that the central bank could be taking the opportunity to signal a reduction in U.K. Base lending rates by cutting the rates at which it intervenes in the discount market. Most operators are expecting a base rate cut today, possibly of one point, following yesterday's budget in which the U.K. Public sector borrowing target for 1987/88 was slashed by three billion stg. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 1.11 billion stg while a rise in note circulation and bankers' balances below target will take out around 120 mln stg and 20 mln stg respectively. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add some 140 mln stg to the system today. REUTER 
LAWSON SAYS HE IS CONTENT WITH CURRENT STERLING EXCHANGE RATE



GULF ARAB STATES MOVE TOWARDS ECONOMIC INTEGRATION

Finance and economy ministers of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) have ended talks after adopting resolutions and recommendations aimed at boosting economic integration. But the ministers from Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) did not endorse a resolution on a common currency exchange rate system. The UAE's Minister of State for Finance and Industry, Ahmed Humaid al-Tayer, told reporters after the two-day talks that the ministers referred the issue back to GCC central bank governors for further discussion. He said the governors, who agreed in January on a proposed denominator on which the six currencies should be based, were asked to resubmit the recommendation before July, when finance ministers were due to meet in Saudi Arabia. Bankers said the central bank governors would meet soon to discuss the issue, adding there was a possibility that a new system could be submitted for final approval to a GCC summit conference scheduled to be held in Saudi Arabia late this year. The denominator approved by the governors has not been made public, but banking sources said it could be similar to the European Monetary System (EMS). Tayer said the ministers agreed in principle to allow GCC citizens to set up businesses and work in any member state. They also agreed in principle on a recommendation for citizens to buy and own shares of GCC shareholding firms. He said the ministers discussed a report on imported goods containing radiation caused by last year's Chernobyl nuclear disaster in the Soviet Union, and agreed all products with excessive levels should be returned to the country of origin. REUTER 
FORMER N.Z. PREMIER CALLS FOR CHEAPER CURRENCY

Former Prime Minister Robert Muldoon, an outspoken advocate of a managed float for the N.Z. Dollar, said the currency is at least 10 pct overvalued. Muldoon said in a speech last night the exchange rate should be around 48 U.S. Cents instead of the current 57 cents. "A reasonable value for the New Zealand dollar would be between 10 and 15 pct less and nearer 15 than 10. Perhaps around about 48 cents," he said. The Labour Party government removed exchange controls and floated the dollar two years ago when it was worth 44 cents. Muldoon has no rank in the opposition National Party, and party leaders, with an eye to general elections to be held by September, have rejected his calls for a managed float. He said the dollar was high because of "grossly excessive" interest rates for government stock. "I know of no other country which is implementing such a free floating policy," he added. "There is widespread agreement internationally that we have no alternative to floating currencies in the short to medium term. But we need more effective methods of managing them so as to limit the volatility which has caused so much concern and damage." REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 181 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with 181 mln stg in assistance this morning. This compares with the Bank's revised shortage forecast of around 400 mln stg. The central bank purchased bank bills outright at the new dealing rates established yesterday. These comprised 65 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 114 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 
S.AFRICA'S FINANCIAL RAND SEEN HEADED HIGHER

The financial rand, widely viewed as a direct reflection of foreign investor confidence in South Africa, appears headed above 30 U.S. Cents, dealers and bank economists said. The currency has risen about 25 pct in the past three months to its current rate of 29.50 cents, due partly to signs of a possible power shift with the appearance of a number of independent candidates in the whites-only election on May 6, they added. It has risen about two cents this week alone. "Another factor is that banks in London, where the main market is based, are going long in the currency because of a general feeling that it will rise in the future," one economist said. Dealers described 30 cents as a psychological barrier that was expected to be broken soon after a brief consolidation phase from recent gains. After reaching 30 cents, "There is a chance of appreciation to 32 cents in the next several weeks," one dealer said. There was a widespread feeling that both the commercial rand, holding stable at 48 cents, and the financial rand were staying firm, banking sources said. A Barclays National Bank executive who asked not to be identified said: "The rise of the independents appears to be indicative of a potential shift of power in the National Party and has created a favourable sentiment overseas." One dealer said growing business and investor interest from West Germany and Switzerland were behind the financial rand's rise. Economists said foreigners also were being attracted by South Africa's long-term government bonds and "semi-gilts" or securities in partly government-owned firms, many with yields as high as 30 pct. They could be purchased with financial rands with interest paid in commercial rands. "This has had a definite influence on the financial form of the rand," a dealer said, adding that at present demand is slightly in excess of supply. The financial rand was reintroduced in September 1985 to help end capital flight from South Africa during a period of severe political unrest in the country. REUTER 
FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS



ITALIAN PANEL URGES EXCHANGE LIBERALIZATION

Liberalization of Italy's foreign exchange controls should be "gradual" but also "reasonably rapid," a report issued by a study committee nominated by the Italian Treasury Ministry said. The report, looking at the country's financial development prospects, said Italy's large public sector deficit and growing public debt were among the considerations that made a gradual liberalization preferable. The report also favoured retention of the lira's six pct oscillation band with the European Monetary System (EMS) during the liberalization process in order to lessen short-term domestic interest rate fluctuations which could result from portfolio adjustments. The lira's fluctuation margin is currently significantly higher than that allowed for other EMS currencies. Italy has over recent months announced a series of deregulation moves in response to a European Community directive aimed at creating a genuine common market in goods, services and finance by 1992. Reuter 
SHORT-TERM YEN INTEREST RATES SEEN FALLING SOON

Japanese short-term interest rates, buoyed recently by seasonal factors, are likely to fall from the beginning of April when the new financial year begins, money traders said. The Bank of Japan is expected to encourage the trend following its attempts to pressure rates to enhance its discount rate cut on February 23, they said. The Bank cut the rate to 2.5 pct from three, and began actively injecting funds into the money market to offset rate rises resulting from the end-of-fiscal-year surge in demand for funds from financial institutions. Despite its attempts to dampen rates with measures such as aggressive commercial bill purchases, the central bank has failed to remove all upward pressure, money traders said. Attractive interest rates offered by domestic banks to compete for time deposits of more than 600 mln yen has underpinned short-term rates, they said. Interest rates on time deposits of more than 600 mln yen were decontrolled by the Finance Ministry last September. This resulted in such deposits with domestic banks rising to 17,830 billion yen by the end-December, a three-fold increase on end-December 1985 levels, bankers said. On March 31, the money market expects to see a 2,000 billion yen surplus resulting from government payment of fiscal funds, money traders said. From April 1, they predict the unconditional call rate will fall to 3.5000 pct from 3.7500 pct today and the one-month commercial bill discount rate to drop to 3.7500 pct from 4.0635 pct. They predict the three-month bill discount rate to slip to 3.875 pct from 4.0000 today and the three-month certificate of deposit rate to slide to 4.10/4.15 from 4.35/25. REUTER 
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL FOUR BILLION GUILDERS

The Dutch Central Bank said it has accepted bids totalling 4.00 billion guilders at tender this morning for new five-day special advances at 5.3 pct for the period March 20 to 25. Subscriptions to 250 mln guilders were fully met, amounts above 250 mln at 30 pct. The new facility replaces old 11-day advances totalling 6.5 billion guilders at the same rate. REUTER 
BANK OF FINLAND WILL ANNOUNCE NEW MEASURES

The Bank of Finland called a news conference at 1200 GMT to announce new measures for the "development of the system of monetary control." A spokesman for the Bank declined to give further details. Banking sources said they expected the bank to announce it will actively take part in the interbank market and buy and sell certificates of deposit. The state treasury issues government paper with a maturity of up to one year. The central bank has so far not issued its own paper, the sources said. REUTER 
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS

The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance and offered to drain funds with three- and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money market sources said. The sources said the measures were a further attempt to rein in money supply and were likely to force some institutions to scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements closes on Monday. The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnight assistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened its special borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct. Money market sources said institutions in need of funds were likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for further assistance. The bank rarely invites applications for ordinary assistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was more likely to open its special borrowing facility again. REUTER 
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE, DRAINS FUNDS

The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance and offered to drain funds with three- and seven-day repurchase agreements at 12-1/2 pct, money market sources said. The sources said the measures were a further attempt to rein in money supply and were likely to force some institutions to scramble for funds before the 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements closes on Monday. The bank, which raised its rate for ordinary overnight assistance to 13-3/4 from 13-1/2 pct on Wednesday, opened its special borrowing facility for overnight funds at 14-1/2 pct. Money market sources said institutions in need of funds were likely to have to return to the bank tomorrow for further assistance. The bank rarely invites applications for ordinary assistance on a Saturday and the sources said it was more likely to open its special borrowing facility again. REUTER 
BANK OF FINLAND TO TRADE IN BANKS' CERTIFICATES

The Bank of Finland said it has started dealings in banks' certificates of deposits (CDs) with immediate effect and that it was prepared to issue its own paper to stimulate operations on the domestic money market. Bank of Finland Governor Rolf Kullberg told a news conference the Bank will also limit credits on the call money market from March 30, 1987, by introducing a maximum credit amount and a penalty rate if banks exceed this ceiling. "The recent introduction of three-month money and these new regulations are decreasing the role of the call money market and the discount rate as monetary instruments," Kullberg said. Bankers welcomed the central bank measures saying these were needed to accelerate the domestic money market. The Bank of Finland had never before been allowed to issue its own CDs, they said. "The central bank for the first time has an instrument with which it really can influence the price of money in this country," one banker said. Under the new rules banks are limited to call money credits to a maximum of 7.5 pct of the total of their equity capital and cash reserves. A penalty rate of interest of 19 pct is now introduced if the limit is exceeded. Director Sixten Korkman at the Bank of Finland's monetary department said he expected the bank to pursue an active policy on the interbank market as an issuer of own-CDs. "We are free to do it, so maybe on Monday we will issue the first, just to see how the system functions. Overall I think we will issue at least a few times a week," Korkman told Reuters. He said the bank was likely to aim at CDs with a three-month maturity at first as the market was best developed for paper of that maturity. The Bank of Finland introduced last December three-month credits and deposits at rates determined by the central bank and the commercial banks as a shift away from the traditional overnight call money market. Liquidity on the call credit market has fallen from around nine billion markka in early December to 167 mln last week, while three-month credits have risen to three to four billion. On the interbank market there has been an increasing trade in banks' CDs, estimated to be some eight billion markka. In addition, commercial paper accounts for around five billion markka and Treasury Bills two billion. REUTER 
FED SAYS IT SETS 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS



NO ZIMBABWE DOLLAR DEVALUATION - CENTRAL BANK

Zimbabwe's Reserve Bank, the nation's central bank, has denied the Zimbabwe dollar would be devalued. Bank Governor Kombo Moyana told The Herald daily newspaper "unfortunate and completely unfounded speculation that a depreciation of the Zimbabwe dollar was about to occur" had aggravated a serious foreign exchange shortage. "During February and the early part of March this (speculation) caused importers to bring forward their payments and exporters to delay as long as possible the inward remittance of export receipts, resulting in a significant slowdown in net foreign exchange inflows," he added. REUTER 
NIGERIA CHANGES AUCTION RULES TO DEFEND THE NAIRA

Nigeria's Central Bank has changed the rules governing its foreign exchange auctions in what analysts see as a means of defending the naira currency, which has depreciated steadily. The bank said in a statement that from April 2, banks bidding for foreign exchange would have to pay at the rate they offered and not, as presently, at the rate of the lowest successful bid made at the auction. This should discourage banks from bidding high to ensure that they were successful while paying the lower "marginal" rate, analysts said. "It should act as a brake because banks will know that if they bid high they will have to pay what they offered," a Western diplomat commented. The naira has depreciated against the dollar by 62 pct since the auctions, known as the Second-Tier Foreign Exchange Market (SFEM), began last September 26. At last week's session the Nigerian currency was fixed at 4.0 to the dollar, the third fall in a row. "They were clearly worried... And this is the logical way of trying to stop the trend," the diplomat said. The Central Bank also announced the auctions would be fortnightly, not weekly, beginning on April 2. It was not immediately clear whether next Thursday's scheduled session would still take place, nor if the bank was planning to double the 50 mln dlrs which are normally on offer at each auction. Demand for foreign exchange has consistently outstripped supply, encouraging banks to bid high and thus further weakening the naira. If the normal weekly allocation is not doubled at the fortnightly session, high demand could undermine the objective of the new system, analysts said. Although bidding banks will now pay what they offered, the official exchange rate for the naira applying to business transactions will continue to be the marginal rate -- the lowest successful bid. SFEM is a central part of Nigeria's structural adjustment program, which is considered to be the most ambitious economic recovery plan in Black Africa. The program involves setting a realistic exchange rate for the naira, which was over-valued for many years, liberalising imports, boosting agriculture, removing subsidies and reducing inefficient government participation in the economy. The World Bank has played a prominent part in designing this dramatic blue-print and in selling it to an often sceptical public which fears inflation and lower living standards. Ishrat Husain, the World Bank's representative in Nigeria, said yesterday he was satisfied both with the adjustment program as a whole and the foreign exchange auctions. "So far so good" he told a meeting of bankers in Lagos, adding that only members of Nigeria's import-dependent elite would suffer hardship while the common man would benefit. Fears that the program would encourage inflation were incorrect, he said. Bumper harvests had reduced rural inflation and urban prices had already reflected the naira's black market value before the currency was allowed to find its true level last September. REUTER 
BANK OF FRANCE SAYS NO MONEY MARKET TENDER TODAY

The Bank of France will not hold a money market intervention tender today, ruling out a further cut in its 7-3/4 pct intervention rate, central bank sources said. At the tenders, depending on market conditions, the Bank injects liquidity into the market by buying up first category paper. But market sources said that while the recent franc performance leaves room for a further quarter point cut in the intervention rate there was plenty of market liquidity. The Bank cut its rate to 7-3/4 pct from eight pct on March 9, the first change since January 2. Interest rates also fell the same week in Britain, Belgium and Italy. REUTER 
SWISS SIGHT DEPOSITS RISE 743.7 MLN FRANCS

Sight deposits of commercial banks at the Swiss National Bank rose 743.7 mln Swiss francs in the second 10 days of March to 8.40 billion, the National Bank said. Foreign exchange reserves fell 392.1 mln francs to 33.55 billion. Sight deposits are a major indicator of money market liquidity in Switzerland. REUTER 
NIGERIA CHANGES AUCTION RULES TO DEFEND NAIRA

Nigeria's Central Bank has changed the rules governing its foreign exchange auctions in what analysts see as a means of defending the naira currency, which has depreciated steadily. The bank said in a statement that from April 2, banks bidding for foreign exchange would have to pay at the rate they offered and not, as presently, at the rate of the lowest successful bid made at the auction. This should discourage banks from bidding high to ensure that they were successful while paying the lower "marginal" rate, analysts said. The Central Bank also announced the auctions would be fortnightly, not weekly, beginning on April 2. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS CURRENCIES WITHIN RANGES THAT BETTER REFLECT FUNDAMENTALS



Dollar hits record low of 149.78 yen - Tokyo dealers



TOKYO - Bank of Japan buys small amount of dollars, dealers said



Miyazawa says time has come for major nations to act on exchange rates



BANK OF JAPAN RE-ENTERS MARKET AND STEPS UP DOLLAR BUYING, DEALERS SAY



Sumita says Bank of Japan will intervene if necessary



SPAIN RAISES CALL MONEY RATES ON HIGHER DEMAND

The Bank of Spain raised overnight call money rates by 1/4 to 14 pct on demand for 746 billion pesetas in today's auction, which a bank spokesman termed "heavy." Rates stood at 12.1 pct at the start of the year and have been increased to drain liquidity on rising demands for funds, the spokesman said. He said in reply to Reuters inquiries that rates could rise further if money supply growth rose above this year's eight pct target for M-4, defined as liquid assets in public hands. Money supply rose at an annualised rate of 16.7 pct last month against 8.1 pct in January. Growth was 11.4 pct in 1986. A leading Spanish broker said the central bank was applying a more restrictive policy to keep the lid on inflation. The consumer price index rose 8.3 pct last year. "Money supply control is the government's chief weapon against inflation," he said. "The problem is higher rates are attracting liquidity from abroad." He said this was why the central bank enacted specific measures to control the inflow of foreign capital. The Bank of Spain earlier this month imposed a 19 pct reserve requirement on new convertible peseta funds held by banks to curb short-term speculative capital from abroad. REUTER 
SUDAN REJECTS IMF DEMAND FOR DEVALUATION

Sudan has rejected a demand by the International Monetary Fund for a currency devaluation because such a move would have a negative impact on its economy, the official Sudan News Agency (SUNA) reported. Finance Minister Beshir Omer, quoted by SUNA, said his government also rejected an IMF demand to lift state subsidies on basic consumer goods. SUNA, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said Omer made the remarks after a meeting in Khartoum yesterday with IMF envoy Abdel-Shakour Shaalan. Sudan, burdened by a foreign debt of 10.6 billion dlrs, is some 500 mln dlrs in arrears to the IMF, which declared it ineligible for fresh loans in February last year. In February 1985, Sudan announced a 48 pct devaluation of its pound against the dollar, adjusting the official exchange rate to 2.5 pounds to the U.S. Currency. Since then, it has resisted pressure from main creditors for more currency adjustments, arguing that past devaluations had failed to boost exports but raised local consumer prices. Sudan also has an incentive rate of four pounds to the dollar for foreign visitors and remittances by expatriate workers. Dealers in Khartoum's thriving black market said the dollar was sold at 5.5 pounds today. With stringent import regulations and the government increasingly short of foreign currency, black market dollars are used to finance smuggled imports from neighbouring countries, mainly Egypt, Kenya, Ethiopia and Zaire. Western diplomats in Khartoum say the meetings between IMF and Sudanese government officials do not amount to formal talks, but rather an effort by the IMF to monitor Sudan's economic performance. The diplomats said Sudan hoped a planned four-year economic recovery program would be acceptable to the IMF as a serious attempt to tackle the country's economic troubles and persuade its Gulf Arab creditors to pay the IMF arrears. This, they said, could provide Sudan with a clean bill of health from the IMF that it could take to Western government creditors, grouped informally in the so-called Paris Club, to reschedule debt payments. Twenty-three pct of Sudan's total foreign debt is owed to members of the Paris Club, the diplomats said. Sudan's Finance Minister said last month the country's IMF representative had told him the fund's executive board was "very pleased with the 18.5 mln dlrs arrears we have paid in the past couple of months." The representative, Omer Said, said IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus said he would ask Saudi Arabia, to which Sudan owes about 1.4 billion dlrs, to help Khartoum to pay more. Sudan has an annual debt liability of nearly 900 mln dlrs but set aside only some 200 mln dlrs to service debts in the fiscal year ending next June 30. REUTER 
BALDRIGE SAYS CHANGES NEEDED IN EXCHANGE RATES OF CURRENCIES PEGGED TO DOLLAR



FED'S JOHNSON SAYS DOLLAR STABILIZED AFTER FED TOOK APPROPRIATE ACTION



Bank of Japan bought 200 to 300 mln dlrs this morning, dealers said.



Bank of Japan keeps intervening to hold dollar above 149 yen, brokers



Current exchange rates almost within levels agreed by major nations - Sumita



Sumita says major nations cooperated to stabilise currencies.



Japan Trade Ministry asks trade houses, exporters to reduce dlr sales, sources



NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES TOTAL 4.2 BILLION

The Dutch Central Bank said it allocated 4.183 billion guilders at tender for the new 5.3 pct, nine-day special advances. Bids were fully met for the first 200 mln guilders and for 40 pct above. The new advances for the period March 25 to April 4, replace current 5.3 pct, five day advances totalling 4.003 billion guilders which expire today. Money brokers said yesterday they expected the Bank to allocate about 3.5 billion guilders. REUTER 
 Bundesbank buys dollars for yen - Frankfurt dealers



JOHNSON SAYS FED'S ACTIONS YESTERDAY MEANT TO STABILIZE DOLLAR AT CURRENT LEVELS



BAKER SAYS U.S. WILLING TO COOPERATE TO STABILIZE EXCHANGE RATES



TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT TO FOSTER STABLE CURRENCIES



Sumita says further yen rise would adversely affect Japanese economy



Sumita says major nations will continue to cooperate to stabilize currencies



BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION TENDER - OFFICIAL



BANK OF FRANCE LAUNCHES MONEY MARKET TENDER

The Bank of France said it set a money market intervention tender today to inject funds to the market against first category paper. Money market sources said the surprise announcement might herald a quarter percentage point cut in the central bank intervention rate from the 7-3/4 pct level set March 10, but they added such a cut was relatively unlikely. The intervention rate was cut from eight pct on March 10 after being raised from 7-1/4 pct on January 2 to head off speculative pressure against the franc. Dealers said market fundamentals could justify a further easing, but a combination of technical factors and renewed currency uncertainties surrounding the dollar had put short-term upside pressure on interest rates in recent sessions. Call money rose yesterday to 7-7/8 eight pct from 7-3/4 7/8 pct. Today it was first indicated at 8-1/8 1/4 before easing on news of the tender to 7-13/16 7/8 pct. Technical factors making for a slight shortage of liquidity in the market included the settlement yesterday of the latest monthly treasury tap stock tender, on March 5, market sources said. REUTER 
SHORT-DATED SAUDI RIYAL RATES FIRM IN QUIET MARKET

Short-dated Saudi riyal interest rates firmed but other rates were steady in quiet trading, dealers said. "Day-to-day money is a bit tighter," one trader said. Overnight rose two points to six pct, while most quotes for tomorrow/next and spot/next were 1/2 point higher at around six, 5-1/2 pct. The periods were essentially steady at 5-7/8, 5/8 pct for one month, 6-1/2, 3/8 pct for three, and 6-7/8, 11/16 for six months. The spot riyal stood at 3.7500/05 to the dollar after 3.7506/09 yesterday. REUTER 
CURRENCY EXCHANGE LOSS PUSHES MALAYSIA'S DEBT UP

An exchange loss of 7.6 billion ringgit in 1986 pushed Malaysia's outstanding external debt up to 50.99 billion ringgit, from 1985's 42.3 billion, the Central Bank said in its annual report. Bank Negara said although Malaysia's net borrowing dropped in 1986, its external debt rose due to the 30 pct appreciation of the basket of currencies against which the ringgit is pegged. The basket comprises principally the U.S. Dollar, yen, mark, Swiss franc, French franc, sterling, guilder, Canadian and Singapore dollars, it added. Bank Negara said growth in external debt, which declined progressively from a peak of 58 pct in 1982 to 13.6 pct in 1985, rose by 20.2 pct in 1986. Malaysia's debt serving ratio of 17.6 pct of its exports in 1986 is within the prudency limit of 20 pct, Bank Negara Governor Jaafar Hussein told reporters. REUTER 
U.S. TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 PACT TO FOSTER CURRENCY STABILITY AROUND CURRENT LEVELS



TREASURY'S MULFORD SAYS G-6 HAS NO CURRENCY TARGET ZONES, RANGES



BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES MONEY MARKET INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED AT 7-3/4 PCT - OFFICIAL



BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS



BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS, SELLS YEN - DEALERS

The Bank of France intervened on the market to buy dollars and sell yen to support the U.S. Currency, dealers said. A major French bank said it acted for the central bank in buying between five and 15 mln dlrs against yen. A dealer at another bank said his bank had been asked to publicise the intervention, to send a clear signal to the markets that central banks were acting in concert to maintain the exchange rates agreed to be appropriate at last month's meeting of the Group of Five and Canada in Paris. The dollar was being quoted at 6.0950/70 francs in early afternoon dealings after a fix of 6.09425 francs. The major French bank said it sold yen at a rate of 149.28 against the dollar. The U.S. Currency was subsequently being quoted at 149.25/35. The Bank of Japan was reported in the market overnight to bolster the credibility of the Paris accord following several days of pressure against the dollar. Pressure developed after U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker repeated earlier statements that the Reagan administration had no targets for the dollar, apparently undermining the assumption that the agreement in Paris had fixed broad fluctuation ranges for major currencies. Baker later said his remark had been misinterpreted. REUTER 
DOLLAR/YEN INTERVENTION RESPONDS TO PRESSURE

The Bank of France intervened to buy small amounts of dollars and sell yen in Paris today to stabilise the exchange rates agreed at last month's meeting of Finance Ministers of the Group of Five and Canada, foreign exchange dealers said. But they said recent central bank intervention in the foreign exchange markets appeared to be a limited reaction to temporary pressures rather than a major defence operation. A Bank of France spokesman declined all comment but sources close to the central bank said it had also intervened yesterday. Dealers said the earlier intervention was in concert with the Bundesbank and Bank of Japan. The sources said the French central bank could have been in the market again today in two-way operations, not necessarily on its own account, but to counter short-term pressures arising from the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31. One major French bank said it bought between five and 15 mln dlrs for the central bank and sold yen at 149.28 to the dollar. Another bank said it had been asked by the Bank of France to say it was in the market, a departure from the central bank's usual insistence on confidentiality. But other banks said they had seen no sign of intervention, which they said appeared to be on a very limited scale. "Even if 10 banks were buying five to 15 mln dlrs, you would still be talking of a small overall amount," said one dealer. Recent intervention by the Bank of Japan appeared mainly to have been required to meet year-end window dressing demand for yen. "This is a specific short term phenomenon rather than a wider trend," the dealer said. Operators have been extremely cautious about testing the dollar's trading ranges against the West German mark and Japanese yen. These ranges were set in February's stabilisation agreement reached here by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and the Finance Ministers of Japan, Germany, France, Britain and Canada. But speculative pressures started to build again this week after Baker was quoted on British television at the weekend as repeating earlier statements that Washington had no target for the dollar. Baker yesterday moved to defuse speculation he was talking the dollar down, telling a Cable News Network interviewer and a Senate committee he stood by the Paris agreement. Foreign exchange markets had been misreading his comments, he said. REUTER 
MULFORD DISAPPOINTED IN NEWLY INDUSTRIALIZED (NICS) EFFORTS TO STRENGTHEN CURRENCIES



FED'S HELLER SAYS DOLLAR'S CURRENT LEVEL IS APPROPRIATE



Bank of Japan buys dollars around 149.00 yen - Tokyo dealers



 Bank of France buying dollars for yen - banking sources



 Bundesbank bought dollars against yen in Frankfurt - dealers



ITALIAN 1987 GDP GROWTH FORECAST AT THREE PCT

Italy's gross domestic product (GDP) will grow three pct in real terms this year and 2.7 pct in 1988, said economic information company Data Resources Europe Inc (DRI). Michel Girardin, DRI Europe's senior economist, said at a conference that Italian GDP growth this year "will be mainly driven by consumption and especially investment." Girardin said the driving force behind GDP growth next year will shift from domestic demand to exports as a result of expected depreciation of the lira against the major currencies. Italy's budget ministry said yesterday that GDP rose 2.7 pct in real terms in 1986. DRI forecast that inflation, which was an average 6.3 pct in 1986, will be under five pct this year and that interest rates should drop two pct. Girardin said the lira is expected to appreciate 14 pct against the dollar this year following last year's 22 pct appreciation. An expected German mark appreciation against the dollar means that the lira should lose about six pct of its value relative to the German currency, he said. DRI estimates that foreign demand for Italian products should grow by a 3.2 pct this year following last year's 6.2 pct increase. REUTER 
BANK OF SPAIN SUSPENDS ASSISTANCE

The Bank of Spain suspended its daily money market assistance obliging borrowers to take funds from the second window, where on Wednesday rates were raised to 16 pct compared with 14 pct for normal overnight funds. Money market sources said in view of high borrower demand the suspension was likely to remain in effect until April 3, the start of the next 10-day accounting period for reserve requirements. The suspension comes after the Bank yesterday gave 1,145 billion pesetas assistance, a record high for this year. It said 90 billion pesetas was provided at the second window. REUTER 
BANK OF FRANCE AGAIN BUYING DOLLARS, SOURCES SAY

The Bank of France intervened in the Paris foreign exchange market this morning for the third successive day, banking sources said. Like yesterday, it bought dollars and sold yen in small amounts, they said. One dealer said it was seen in the market twice in early dealing, buying five mln dlrs each time. Other dealers also reported small-scale intervention to stabilise the dollar after aggressive selling overnight in Tokyo, where the Bank of Japan also intervened again. The dollar steadied at around 6.0650/0700 francs after easing in early trading to 6.0615/35 from an opening 6.0700/50. It closed yesterday at 6.0800/30. One major french bank said it bought 10 mln dlrs for the central bank, selling yen, within a trading range of 148.20/30 yen to the dollar, compared with yesterday's 149.28 rate at which intervention was carried out here. The yen later firmed to around 147.90/148.00. Reuter 
BANK OF FRANCE BUYS DOLLARS AT PARIS FIXING - DEALERS



 swiss national bank says bought dollars against yen



SWISS NATIONAL BANK SAYS IT BOUGHT DOLLARS

The Swiss National Bank bought dollars against yen today, a spokesman for the bank said. He declined to say how many dollars the bank bought or when precisely it intervened. Swiss foreign exchange dealers described the National Bank's purchases as modest, perhaps amounting to no more than 20 or 30 mln dlrs. The Bank of France, which was reported buying dollars against the yen in Paris, had made inquiries with Swiss banks as well, and the Bundesbank had also intervened. Bank of Japan dollar purchases today were perhaps 1.2 to 1.5 billion dlrs. Dealers said this tended to confirm the market's impression that major industrial countries had agreed at the Paris meeting on an effective floor for the dollar of 148 yen, and the market seemed ready to test it. Commercial clients were also selling dollars against the yen as the end of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31 drew closer. Today's dealings in spot currencies are booked for March 31. One dealer said he had the feeling Japanese companies had been asked by the Bank of Japan not to sell dollars at this point, but some, while sticking to the letter of that request, were offering dollars forward today, rather than lose out if the dollar fell further. The run on the dollar against the yen came in a market thinned by the absence of many dealers for a Forex Club meeting in Hamburg. Trading was, in fact, rather light against currencies other than the yen, the dollar holding little changed through the day. The market now expected the U.S. Federal Reserve to intervene in support of the dollar. "But they will probably do it only half-heartedly, so I don't think it will matter too much on rates," one dealer said. REUTER 
AUSTRIA DOES NOT INTERVENE TO SUPPORT DOLLAR

The Austrian National Bank did not intervene on the foreign exchange markets today to support the dollar, deputy banking department chief Herbert Danzinger told Reuters. He denied a suggestion by a dealer at one Vienna bank that the National Bank had sold marks to support the U.S. Currency. Senior dealers at Creditanstalt and Girozentrale, Austria's two largest banks, said they would have been aware of any National Bank intervention. Any dollar purchases by the Bank today were for purely day-to-day purposes, they said. REUTER 
TAIWAN TO STUDY SUSPENDING FOREX CONTROLS

Premier Yu Kuo-Hua ordered financial officials to quicken the pace of relaxing foreign exchange controls and study the possibility of suspending the controls, a cabinet statement said. The statement quoted Yu as telling Finance Ministy and Central Bank officials the relaxation was needed to help reduce Taiwan's surging foreign exchange reserves, which reached a record 53 billion U.S. Dollars this month. Finance Minister Robert Chien told reporters his ministry and the Central Bank would work jointly on new measures to ease the controls, but he did not give details. Yu said the government could maintain the framework of the foreign exchange controls while finding ways to ease them. The controls would be used during emergency. Taiwan's reserves have resulted largely from its trade surplus, which hit 15.6 billion dlrs in 1986 and 10.6 billion in 1985. About 95 pct of the surplus was from Taiwan's trade with the United States, according to official figures. But he said that while easing the controls would help reduce the reserves, it would not do so substantially in a short time. Economists and bankers said the new decision resulted from growing pressure from the United States, Taiwan's largest trading partner, which buys almost half the island's exports. Lu Ming-Jen, economic professor at Soochow University, told Reuters: "The decision came a little bit late. But it was better than never." Ko Fei-Lo, Vice President at First Commercial Bank, said the government should rapidly relax its foreign exchange controls and open its market wider to help balance trade with its trading partners, especially the United States. "The liberalisation in both imports and foreign exchange controls will not only help our trading partners, but also help our own economic problems," he said. He said the mounting foreign exchange reserveshelped boost Taiwan's money supply by 48.22 pct in the year to end-February. REUTER 
OFFICIAL WANTS ARAB FUND TO HELP LEBANESE POUND

Lebanese central bank Vice Governor Meguerditch Bouldikian called for the establishment of an Arab fund to assist the Lebanese pound, which has lost more than 80 pct of its value against the dollar since January 1986. Bouldikian told an Arab exchange dealers conference the bank would continue to take measures to defend the currency. But he said Lebanon needed foreign support for its war-battered economy now more than ever before. "We expect a common effort between the central bank and Arab central banks and monetary authorities to create an Arab fund to support and preserve the value of the currency when needed," he said. Twelve years of civil war have devastated productive sectors of the Lebanese economy and created gaping trade and budget deficits. Bouldikian said recent government measures had succeeded in reducing demand for imports and increasing exports. "These are encouraging factors, but the war has not ended yet," he said. "We believe that with a just political solution acceptable to all sides, confidence will return and this will benefit the Lebanese pound and Lebanon." In the meantime, he said the central bank had four main goals: 1) to use surplus liquidity to finance the budget deficit 2) to increase the role of commercial banks and non-bank financing institutions in financing the deficit 3) to limit the transfer of Lebanese pounds into foreign currency deposits 4) to protect the financial health of commercial banks. REUTER 
CHINA POSTPONES PLAN TO SCRAP PARALLEL CURRENCY

Chinese Vice-Premier Tian Jiyun said plans to scrap the country's parallel currency, Foreign Exchange Certificates (FECs), had been postponed due to objections from foreign businessmen and others. But Tian told a news conference the Chinese government still considered FECs unsatisfactory. Asked about the current state of plans to abolish the FECs, Tian said: "We have decided to postpone the question. As to whether it will be done in the future, it will be done according to the evolution of the situation." He said many people, including foreign businessmen, had raised objections to the plan to abolish the certificates, and added: "It is rather complicated." The FECs were introduced in 1980 for use by foreigners in China. But they now circulate widely among local residents and there is a big black market in the currency, though it is theoretically at par with the ordinary Chinese currency, renminbi. Tian said the government still considered that the FECs had "many demerits and negative influences." Bank of China President Wang Deyan told Reuters earlier this month that he thought it unlikely that the certificates would be scrapped this year. Western diplomats and economists have said the Chinese authorities are having trouble finding a suitable alternative. Vice-Premier Yao Yilin announced at a similar press conference last year that the FECs would be abolished, saying the government had decided it was ideologically unacceptable to have two currencies circulating in China at the same time. REUTER 
ARAB BANKER SAYS TOO SOON FOR SINGLE CURRENCY

Gulf Arab states must coordinate economic policies more closely before moving towards their goal of a unified currency system, the President of the Arab Bankers Association said. Hikmat Nashashibi told a news conference at the end of an Arab currency traders meeting: "We have to start with coordination of fiscal policies as a prerequisite for a common system of currencies ... There is quite a substantial way to go yet." He said only then would a unified Gulf currency system be a plausible project. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates -- have held a series of meetings this year to examine linking their currencies to a single peg in a system which bankers say could be modelled on the European Monetary System (EMS). At present, five currencies are linked either officially or in practice to the U.S. Dollar, while the Kuwaiti dinar is pegged to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. A common currency system or EMS-style "grid" would, in theory, foster regional trade by providing a basis for stable exchange rates, but Nashashibi said inter-Arab trade is at a very low ebb and capital flows between Gulf states remain small. "Capital markets in the Arab world are still in their infancy," he said. Nashashibi said lack of experience among Arab banks, a paucity of financial instruments and a legal framework that often does not recognise the western banking concept of interest have hampered the growth of Arab markets. REUTER 
ITALY RELAXES RESTRICTIONS ON LIRA IMPORTS

Italy is to modify restrictions limiting the amount of lira cash that can be brought in and out of the country, the Foreign Trade Ministry said. A statement said Foreign Trade Minister Rino Formica has signed a measure lifting currency regulations that currently impose a 400,000 lire limit on the value of lira bank notes that can be brought into Italy. It did not say when the new measure would come into force. In future, there will be no limit to the amount of lira bank notes both residents and non-residents can bring into Italy. The statement said the 400,000 lire limit would remain for Italian residents wishing to take cash out of the country, but non-residents could re-export lira cash if they made appropriate declarations at customs points. It said the lifting of the restrictions "reinforces the international status of the lira and meets the requirements expressed several times by foreign exchange dealers." REUTER 
ARAB FOREX ASSOCIATION ELECTS NEW CHAIRMAN

The Inter-Arab Cambist Association (ICA) elected Abdullah al-Dakhil of Kuwait's Burgan Bank its new chairman, succeeding Hani Ramadan of Beirut Riyad Bank for a three-year term, ICA officials said The annual meeting elected three Vice-Chairmen -- Ezzedine Saidane of Banque Internationale Arabe de Tunis, Mohammed Osman of Societe Bancaire du Liban and Walid Nasouli of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York. Ibrahim Buhindi of the Saudi National Commercial Bank in Bahrain and Imad Bata of Finance and Credit Corp of Jordan were elected Secretary and Treasurer, respectively. REUTER 
DOLLAR OPENS AT A RECORD LOW FOR TOKYO AT 145.80 YEN - DEALERS



Bank of Japan intervenes, buys dollars around 145.90-95 yen -- Tokyo dealers



DOLLAR FALLS BELOW 145.00 YEN IN TOKYO -- DEALERS



BANK OF JAPAN ALREADY PURCHASED ONE BILLION DLRS IN MORNING INTERVENTION - DEALERS



Sumita says he does not repeat not expect dollar to fall further.



Japan will continue to cooperate with other nations to stabilize dlr, Sumita



Nakasone says major nations committed in Paris to stable dlr above 150 yen



Miyazawa says major nations have intervened aggressively since dlr fell below 150 yen



BAHRAIN INTRODUCES NEW MONEY MARKET REGIME

Bahrain is introducing a new domestic money market regime to provide dinar liquidity aid centred on the island's newly launched treasury bill programme. The Bahrain Monetary Agency has issued a circular to all commercial banks outlining a new policy from April 1 which gives liquidity aid through sale and repurchase agreements in treasury bills, or through discounting them. The circular, released officially to Reuters, said current arrangements for providing liquidity aid will no longer be valid except "in quite exceptional circumstances." Under the current system, the agency provides the island's 20 commercial banks with dinar liquidity by means of short-term swaps against U.S. Dollars and, less frequently, by short-term loans secured against government development bonds. "The agency considers that it is now appropriate to replace these operations with short-term assistance based on Government of Bahrain treasury bills," the circular to banks states. The agency said it will repurchase treasury bills with a simultaneous agreement to resell them to the same bank at a higher price which will reflect an interest charge. The agency said it envisages the repurchase agreements will normally be for a period of seven days. Bahrain launched a weekly tender for two mln dinars of 91-day treasury bills in mid-December last year and has since raised a total of 26 mln dinars through the programme. Bahrain's commercial banks are currently liquid and have been making little use of the traditional dollar swaps offered by the agency. But banking sources said the new regime from April 1 will mean banks cannot afford not to hold treasury bills in case they need funds from the central bank. Banking sources said more than half of the 20 banks hold treasury bills, although the need by others to take up paper could increase demand at weekly tenders and push down allotted yields slightly. Last week's yield was six pct, although the programme had started at the end of last year with rates as low as 5.60 pct. Banking sources said the cost of liquidity through repurchase accords will not differ much from that on dollar swaps. But a bank using dollars to obtain liquidity would foresake interest on the U.S. Currency while the underlying treasury bill investment is unaffected in a repurchase accord. REUTER 
INDONESIAN RUPIAH SLIPS AGAINST MARK AND YEN

The Indonesian rupiah has held steady since its 31 pct devaluation against the dollar six months ago, but has slipped against the mark and to a lesser extent against the yen, according to central bank figures. In the past month, the rupiah has fallen five pct against the yen. Today's middle rate per 100 yen was 1,129.78 against 1,075.20 at end-February and 1,058.6 at devaluation in September. Bank Indonesia's quoted rate for the dollar, the main currency for Indonesia's oil and gas exports, was 1,644.0 today, the same rate fixed at the time of devaluation. The rate for the West German mark was 913.28 today, a sharp drop from September when it was 786.06. The British pound has risen to 2,657.93 against 2,429.83. The value of the rupiah is set daily against a basket of currencies by the central bank. The rise in the value of the mark and the yen has hit Indonesia by increasing its debt servicing levels. Its total disbursed foreign debt is estimated by the World Bank at 37 billion dlrs. Japan is one of Indonesia's key trading partners, taking half its oil exports. REUTER 
 Miyazawa expects dollar to rebound soon, spokesman says



PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), a leading trader of currency options, plans to extend its trading hours to serve Australasian and Far Eastern markets, exchange president Nicholas Giordano said. He told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between 1900 and 2300 hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the third quarter this year. The PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serve clients in the region and educate financial markets about the advantages of currency options, Giordano said. Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-Pacific tour by exchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of the exchange-trade currency option market against existing over-the-counter option trading during the local working day. Currency options pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had become an accepted means of hedging against foreign exchange risk and had grown in popularity, he said. The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, including a new Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000 contracts daily with underlying open interest of more than 30 billion U.S. Dlrs. Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with the performance of its Australian dollar contract, which since its introduction last year had regularly topped the French franc as the third most popular traded option, with up to 8,000 contracts traded daily. Having the Philadelphia exchange open during the Asia-Pacific market day would open new hedging opportunities, set a truer level for over-the-counter option trading, increase arbitraging opportunities and give corporations and treasuries access to a currency option market of much greater depth and liquidity with the security of a clearing house, he said. REUTER 
ASIAN DOLLAR MARKET ASSETS FALL IN JANUARY

The gross size of the Asian dollar market contracted to 197.2 billion U.S. Dlrs in January, down 3.4 billion dlrs from December, reflecting a decline in interbank activity, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) said in its latest monthly bulletin. The assets stood at 151.7 billion dlrs in January last year. MAS said interbank lending fell in January to 140.9 billion dlrs from 146.6 billion in December but rose from 102.0 billion in january 1986 and interbank deposits to 154.0 billion against 159.4 and 117.1 billion, respectively. Loans to non-bank customers increased to 40.1 billion dlrs in January from 38.7 billion in December and 36.9 billion in January, 1986. Deposits of non-bank customers also increased in January to 34.9 billion from 33.8 billion a month ago and 27.7 billion a year ago. REUTER 
U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR

A leading U.S. Banker said the dollar was likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and an improvement in the huge American trade deficit would be only temporary at current world exchange rate levels. Kurt Viermetz, worldwide treasurer of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein in U.S. deficits on a lasting basis. Reuter 
FED SETS TWO BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



BRAZIL TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET

Brazilian President Jose Sarney announced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase of U.S. dollars in the parallel currency market, aimed at promoting imports of foreign goods. In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face "current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for the purchase of goods." The parallel market, although officially tolerated, is technically illegal in Brazil. For the past year, the dollar in the parallel market has sold at between 25 and 100 pct above the official rate. Sarney's decision means Brazilian importers of machinery and industrial equipment can buy dollar currency in the parallel market without having to wait for an official order from the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department (Cacex). Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in an effort to strengthen the country's trade balance and alleviate the risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of the economy. The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council (CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazil's trade policy, with participation of the private sector. The Council had been closed three years ago by the military government of former President Joao Figueiredo. Reuter 
SARNEY TEMPORARILY LEGALISES DLR PARALLEL MARKET

Brazilian President Jose Sarney announced a move which temporarily legalises the purchase of U.S. Dollar currency in the parallel market, aimed at promoting imports of foreign goods. In a speech, Sarney justified his measure as a need to face "current well known difficulties to obtain foreign loans for the purchase of goods." The parallel market, although tolerated, is technically illegal. For the past year, the dollar in the parallel market is being sold at 25 to 100 pct above the official rate. Sarney's decision means that Brazilian importers of machinery and industrial equipment can buy dollar currency in the parallel market without having to wait for the issuing of an official order from the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department (Cacex). Sarney also announced measures to boost exports in an effort to strengthen the country's trade balance and alleviate the risk of a reduction of foreign loans for this sector of the economy. The president authorised the National Foreign Trade Council (CONEX) to resume operating as the ruling body of Brazil's trade policy, with participation of the private sector. The Council had been closed three years ago by the military government of former President Joao Figueiredo. Tomorrow, Brazil was due to fulfill payment of 15 billion dollars in short range credit lines, but its economic officials have suggested a 60-day extension in the deadline in order to seek a renegotiation with its creditors. Sarney told members of the Council that for Brazil it is a must to recover its annual trade balance surplus to the 12 billion dollars average recorded in 1984 and 1985, and which dropped sharply last year to 8 billion dollars. He attributed the poor performance of Brazil's trade balance in 1986 to protectionist moves by industrialised countries, the fall in the prices of basic goods and the crisis faced by several of Brazil's Third World trade partners. Reuter 
SOUTH KOREA TO RESIST CURRENCY REVALUATION

South Korean Finance Minister Chung In-yong will resist pressure for a currency revaluation to cut South Korea's trade surplus with the United States when he meets Treasury Secretary James Baker next week, Finance Ministry officials said. They said Chung would leave Monday to attend the International Monetary Fund's Interim Committee meeting and to hold talks with Baker and other U.S. officials on ways to reduce the surplus. The April 9 committee meeting is expected to review the agreement by six industrialized nations in Paris last month that newly-industrialized countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, should allow their currencies to increase in value. Reuter 
DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT EASES IN WEEK

Loans and advances from the Dutch Central Bank to the commercial banks fell 1.01 billion guilders to 9.5 billion guilders in the week ending March 30, the Bank's weekly return showed. Dealers said payments by the Dutch state, partly in the form of civil service wages, had outweighed payments to the State, causing the money market deficit to ease. The Treasury's account with the Bank dropped 960 mln guilders to 6.5 billion guilders. Liabilities in gold or foreign currency rose 200 mln to 11.9 billion guilders. Dealers said it was more likely that the alteration in this item on the weekly return indicated normal commercial foreign exchange business rather than intervention by the Central Bank. The Bank itself does not disclose information on intervention. Seasonal variation brought bank notes in circulation up 190 mln guilders to 29.7 billion guilders. Total gold and currency reserves rose 173 mln guilders to 56.4 billion guilders. Call money and period rates were barely changed in the week. Today all were traded at 5-3/8 to 5-1/2 pct. REUTER 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. REMAINS PREPARED TO FOSTER EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY



Bank of Japan buys dollars around 146.30 yen, dealers say



Bank of Japan intervenes buying dollars at around 147.30 yen - dealers



FED BUYING ONE BILLION DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER
ACCOUNT, FED SAYS



TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES

The Turkish Central Bank set a lira/dollar rate for April 2 of 780.00/783.90 to the dollar, down from the previous 777.00/780.89. The Bank also set a lira/mark rate of 429.15/431.30 to the mark, up from the previous 430.50/432.65. REUTER 
FINLAND REVISES CURRENCY BASKET

The Bank of Finland said it has revised the weightings in its currency basket with effect from today. Weightings match the respective country's share in Finland's foreign trade. Weights in percentages compared with former weights. Dollar 9.0 (8.8) Sterling 14.3 (13.8) Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6) Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2) Danish crown 5.2 (5.3) German mark 19.3 (19.6) REUTER^M 
FED SAYS IT BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER, MAY
THROUGH SEPT 24 MATURITY



BANK OF FRANCE TO BUY FIRST CATEGORY PAPER TODAY

The Bank of France is to inject liquidity against first category paper at a tender this afternoon, a Bank spokesman said. Money market sources were divided as to whether they thought the Bank of France would use the occasion to cut its intervention rate, which has stood at 7 3/4 pct since it was cut from eight pct on March 9. Some thought a rate cut unlikely given foreign exchange turbulence and the U.S. Prime rate rise to 7 3/4 pct, while others still counted on a 1/4 point cut by the Bank of France. REUTER 
RISING TAIWAN DOLLAR CAUSES FOREIGN RESERVES LOSS

Taiwan said its foreign reserves suffered about 3.4 billion U.S. Dlrs in exchange rate losses from July 1986 to February 1987 as a result of the rise of the Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Currency. Yu Chien-ming, head of the government statistics department, told parliament yesterday he expected the losses to increase as the Taiwan dollar continues to strengthen. The Taiwan dollar, which opened at 34.24 to the U.S. Dollar today, has risen about 16 pct against the U.S. Unit since September 1985. Some bankers expect it to rise to 33 by June and to 32 by the end of this year. Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves now total 53 billion dlrs. At end-February they were 52.1 billion dlrs, the world's third largest after West Germany and Japan. Yu said the interest earned from the reserves totalled about 1.68 billion U.S. Dlrs from July 1986 to February 1987. The reserves are managed by the central bank and deposited at about 170 leading banks in the U.S., Japan, Britain, Canada and Singapore. About 75 pct of the reserves are in the form of cash, mostly in U.S. Dollars. The rest are in government treasury bills, certificates of deposit and bonds. REUTER 
BANK OF FRANCE LEAVES INTERVENTION RATE UNCHANGED

The Bank of France said it left its intervention rate unchanged at 7-3/4 pct when it injected funds to the market against first category paper in todays money market intervention tender. Money market dealers had earlier expressed mixed views on a possible quarter point cut. The rate was last adjusted on March 9, when it was reduced to 7-3/4 pct from the eight pct rate set in January. REUTER 
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES

Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollar rate for April 3 of 782.50/786.41 to the dollar, down from 780.00/783.90. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 428.30/430.44 to the mark, up from 429.15/431.30. REUTER 
NEW DUTCH SPECIAL ADVANCES UNCHANGED AT 5.3 PCT

The Dutch central bank announced new 12-day special advances at an unchanged rate of 5.3 pct to cover money market tightness for the period April 3 to 15. The amount will be set at tender on April 3 between 0700 and 0730 hours GMT. The new facility replaces the current 4.2 billion guilders of nine-day advances which expire tomorrow. Money market dealers said the rate for the new advances was in line with expectations. They added they expect the Bank to allocate between 4.0 and 4.5 billion guilders. REUTER 
 Lawson says his sterling target comments were misunderstood, and insignificant



LAWSON SAYS HIS STERLING-TARGET COMMENTS WERE MISUNDERSTOOD AND INSIGNIFICANT



EYSKENS SAYS US PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES

Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens warmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates, calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and Canada Paris accord on stabilising currencies. The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policy convergence among major countries, he added. In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear he believed the countries involved in the accord - the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada - had agreed "tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates. Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting of European Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Belgium this weekend focusing on the international monetary situation and proposals for strengthening the European Monetary System (EMS). Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets, Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "more or less workable" despite what he called evident disagreements over U.S. Economic and monetary policy between Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker. Besides Baker's public statements that had dramatically influenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.And Japan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against the yen, he said. But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo could reach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "I think agreement is quite possible," he said. Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by this week's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite the obvious negative consequences for debtor countries. "It is a positive element which goes further than the (Paris) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account of its content," he said. He added that coordination of interest rates was a fundamental element of economic and monetary convergence between leading industrialised economies. "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuation ranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by a more coordinated policy of interest rates," he said. Eyskens made clear he believed the G-6 countries had agreed in Paris on ranges in which to hold their currencies. He said the end of the February 22 Louvre accord, in which the partners agreed to cooperate closely to foster exchange rate stability around current levels, clearly alluded to a "system of tentative (fluctuation) margins." He added the meeting and the statement would have been meaningless if the G-6 had not discussed the technicalities of implementing it. Eyskens said there was growing economic convergence among leading industrialised countries pointing towards greater order in the international monetary system. "That doesn't mean we are ready to restore Bretton Woods (the post-World War Two system of fixed exchange rates), but within the (International Monetary Fund) Interim Committee we are thinking in terms of target zones, fluctuation ranges to be implemented and defended," he said. The Interim Committee meets next week in Washington ahead of the IMF's Spring meetings, and Eyskens said the EC ministers would prepare for the gatherings at this weekend's talks. He said he hoped for wide-ranging talks on the future of the EMS at the weekend meeting, based on proposals from the EC's Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors for strengthening the system through technical and institutional changes. Eyskens said he expected EC Commission President Jacques Delors to submit proposals for fully liberalising capital movements within the 12-nation bloc and made clear he shared Delors' view that this must be accompanied by a reinforcement of the EMS. "Both are totally linked. Liberalisation without strengthening the EMS would destabilise the Community," he said. REUTER 
BELGIUM SAYS U.S PRIME RISES WILL AID CURRENCIES

Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens warmly welcomed this week's increase in U.S. Prime rates, calling it a move that went beyond the Group of Five and Canada Paris accord on stabilising currencies. The rate rise would underpin economic and financial policy convergence among major countries, he added. In an interview with Reuters, Eyskens also made clear he believed the countries involved in the accord -- the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada -- had agreed "tentative" fluctuation ranges for exchange rates. Eyskens was speaking before hosting an informal meeting of European Community finance ministers and central bank chiefs in Belgium this weekend focusing on the international monetary situation and proposals for strengthening the European Monetary System (EMS). Asked about the dollar's recent fall on currency markets, Eyskens said he believed the Paris agreement was proving "more or less workable" despite what he called evident disagreements over U.S. Economic and monetary policy between Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker. Besides Baker's public statements that had dramatically influenced exchange markets, trade tensions between the U.S.And Japan had also caused the dollar's fall, expecially against the yen, he said. But he expressed optimism that Washington and Tokyo could reach a compromise in their row over semi-conductor trade. "I think agreement is quite possible," he said. Eyskens said he was "very agreeably surprised" by this week's quarter-point increase in U.S. Prime rates despite the obvious negative consequences for debtor countries. "It is a positive element which goes further than the (Paris) Louvre agreement ...It is the market taking account of its content," he said. He added that coordination of interest rates was a fundamental element of economic and monetary convergence between leading industrialised economies. "A policy of maintaining exchange rates within fluctuation ranges is not possible if it is not accompanied at least by a more coordinated policy of interest rates," he said. Reuter 
NIGERIAN NAIRA FIRMS AFTER RULE CHANGE

The Nigerian naira firmed against the dollar, banking sources said, after the rules governing foreign exchange auctions at the central bank were changed. The marginal rate set at today's auction, from which reporters were barred for the first time since the sessions began last September, was 3.7001 to the dollar compared with 4.0002 at the last session on March 19, the sources said. Under the new system unveiled on March 20 and in operation for the first time today, bidding banks must pay for foreign exchange at the rate they bid, rather than as previously at the rate of the lowest successful bid. The measure was aimed at discouraging banks from bidding high and thus driving down the naira's value. But banking sources and other analysts said demand for foreign exchange remained sharply higher than the available funds. Henceforth the sessions will be held every fortnight, instead of weekly, and today only 80 mln dlrs was on offer compared with the 50 mln dlrs usually on sale each week. The rule change appeared to have an immediate impact on bids. Today's highest bid was 4.06 to the dollar, compared with a top bid of 4.25 two weeks ago. Banks who bid higher than the marginal rate will be able to pass on their rate to their customers, while the marginal rate will only act as a marker for transactions. REUTER 
NEW DUTCH ADVANCES TOTAL 4.1 BILLION GUILDERS

The Duth Central bank said it accepted bids totalling 4.086 billion guilders at tender for the new twelve-day special advances at an unchanged 5.3 pct. Bids up to 30 mln guilders were met in full, amounts above at 40 pct. The new advances, covering the period April 3 to 15, replace the current 4.2 billion guilder nine-day facility at 5.3 pct, which expires today. Money market dealers said the total amount allocated was in line with expectations and would be sufficient to cover the money market shortage for the duration of the facility. REUTER 
EC MINISTERS WILL DISCUSS STRENGTHENING EMS FLOAT

European Community finance ministers and central bankers meet in Belgium this weekend to discuss strengthening Europe's joint currency float amid continuing worries about turbulence on foreign exchanges. Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens, who will host the informal talks, told Reuters the ministers and central bank chiefs would discuss the situation on currency markets in the light of the February agreement among leading industrialised countries to stabilise exchange rates around present levels. In an interview, Eyskens said he felt the Paris accord between the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada had proved itself "more or less workable." But doubts over its effectiveness and durability have been growing since fears of a trade war between the United States and Japan over computer microchips pushed the dollar to a record low against the surging yen early this week. The talks, at the Belgian resort of Knokke, are being held to coordinate the EC's positions on monetary issues and Third World debt ahead of the Spring meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank in Washington next week. The EC gathering begins tonight with a dinner but the main discussions will take place tomorrow. Continued international currency turbulence could undermine plans for reinforcing the European Monetary System, the joint float holding eight EC currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, which will feature high on the weekend agenda. Eyskens has repeatedly said that Europe needs a period of calm on world currency markets, and in particular a more stable dollar, before it can set about strengthening the EMS to make it more resilient against exchange rate swings. The EMS has been taking a battering over the last year as the falling dollar has sent funds surging into the dominant EMS currency, the West German mark, forcing ministers to undertake two major realignments of parities within nine months. In the interview, Eyskens made clear he was hoping for a wide-ranging discussion on the future of the eight-year-old EMS on the basis of proposals for bolstering it drawn up by the EC's Monetary Committee and the Committee of Central Bank Governors. The committees were asked to come up with the proposals after the last reshuffle of EMS exchange rates in January. Eyskens repeated calls for the European Currency Unit, the fledgling EC currency at the core of the system, to take over the mark's dominant role in the EMS - a proposal that has met with a cool response in West Germany. He said EC Commission President Jacques Delors would report to the meeting on problems raised by plans to liberalise capital movements fully within the 12-nation bloc by 1992, such as the need for harmonising taxes and banking controls. Eyskens said liberalisation of capital movements without strengthening the EMS would be an element of destabilisation in the Community. He said the crucial issue in the debate was whether member states were willing to push further towards the EC's goal of monetary integration on the basis of an EMS that included management of exchange rates by some kind of common institution, instead of by national central banks as at present. Plans for the creation of such an institution, foreseen by the EMS's founding fathers, have been thwarted by the reluctance of some countries, notably West Germany, to gove up their sovereignty in the monetary field. EMS development has also been held up by Britain's refusal so far to join the system's core exchange rate mechanism. REUTER 
TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES

Turkey's Central Bank set a lira/dollar rate for April 6 of 781.95/785.86 to the dollar, up from 782.50/786.41. It set a lira/D-mark rate of 430.15/432.30 to the mark, down from 428.30/430.44. REUTER 
EC AGREES ON NEED TO STRENGTHEN EMS

European Community (EC) finance ministers and central bankers agreed on the need for greater cooperation to strengthen the European Monetary System (EMS) against international market turbulence, officials said. "There was a general will to reinforce the European Monetary System, with all that implies," Belgian Finance Minister Mark Eyskens said yesterday after hosting a one-day session of informal talks at this Belgian coastal resort. The gathering was the first such discussion since the second major realignment of EMS parities within nine months in January. The system has come under severe strain as funds have flowed out of the slumping dollar and into the dominant EMS currency, the West German mark, sending it soaring against weaker currencies in the system. But Eyskens said February's agreement between leading western industrialised nations to stabilise exchange rates at around current levels was working and this would allow the EC to speed up its efforts to boost the internal stability of the EMS. He told a news conference yesterday's meeting agreed on the need for closer coordination among EMS member governments of interest rate policies and of interest rate differentials between different countries. They also agreed they needed better coordination of exchange market intervention to hold currencies stable, both when they reached their fixed EMS limits and within their agreed margins. But Eyskens said this coordination raised a whole range of technical problems and ministers would discuss these further in Luxembourg in June on the basis of proposals from the EC's Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors. He said the EC needed a set of indicators of economic convergence betwen Community countries and it was important that interest rates fulfilled this role together with exchange rates and inflation rates. The Belgian minister, whose country presently holds the presidency of the community, made clear the meeting had not produced any agreement to move radically forward in developing the EMS towards the EC's long term goal of economic and monetary integration. "We have committed ourselves to reestablishing the normal functioning of the system," Eyskens said. Eyskens has repeatedly stressed that he believes the EMS has to be reinforced if the EC's plans to liberalise all movements of capital across national borders by 1992 are to go ahead. EC executive Commission President Jacques Delors told the meeting the authority would put forward proposals for a final phase of capital market liberalisation in October that would include safeguard clauses for member countries for which the move would create difficulties. Eyskens said the ministers and central bankers also discussed the need to "dedramatise" realignments of EMS parities by letting high-ranking monetary officials carry them out by telephone rather than calling a meeting of finance ministers. However, West German sources said Bonn Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg was unenthusiastic about the idea. British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told journalists that one of the technical issues raised by greater coordination of exchange market intervention was the question of which currencies should be used to intervene and held in central bank reserves. He said several EMS member countries believed the EMS would work better if central banks held each other's currencies -- an issue of particular importance regarding West Germany since the Bundesbank holds only dollars in its foreign exchange reserves. He said the debate on dedramatising EMS realignments reflected a general feeling among participants that the way the January reshuffle had been conducted was unsatisfactory. The realignment was marked by acrimony between France and West Germany, with each side blaming the other for strains in the system that forced the parity overhaul. REUTER 
ZAMBIAN CURRENCY FALLS AT FOREIGN EXCHANGE AUCTION

The Zambian currency further depreciated yesterday at the second auction since the introduction of a two-tier foreign exchange system last month. The (central) Bank of Zambia said the kwacha was pegged at 16.99 to the dollar, compared to last week"s rate of 15 to the dollar. The bank, which offered six mln dlrs at the auction, reported demand for 13.4 mln dlrs. At the previous auction, the government offered eight mln dlrs. Last month the government set a fixed exchange rate of nine kwacha per dollar, subject to adjustment against a basket of five currencies, for certain official transactions. It also introduced a new weekly foreign exchange auction only for parastatal organisations and the private sector, where the exchange rate is allowed to float in accordance with market demand. The new auction system is designed to be more restrictive than the previous one, suspended in January after the central bank fell 10 weeks in arrears to successful bidders. Under the new system, no bidder, except the the state oil company Zimoil and the national airline Zambia Airways, is allowed to bid for more than five pct of the foreign exchange on offer. REUTER 
 Bundesbank sets 28-day securities repurchase tender at fixed 3.80 pct



EGYPTIAN CENTRAL BANK DOLLAR RATE UNCHANGED

Egypt's Central Bak left the dollar rate for Commercial banks for April 8 unchanged at 1.353/67 pounds. REUTER 
VOLCKER SAYS FURTHER SIZEABLE DECLINE IN DOLLAR COULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE



TURKISH CENTRAL BANK SETS LIRA/DOLLAR, DM RATES

The Turkish Central Bank set a Lira/Dollar rate for April 8 of 784.50/788.42 to the Dollar, down from the previous 784.35/788.27. The Bank also set a Lira/Mark rate of 430.60/432.75 to the Mark, down from the previous 429.35/431.50. 
VOLCKER SAYS RESTRICTIVE MONETARY POLICY WOULD HURT INVESTMENT



FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS



DUTCH MONEY MARKET DEBT RISES IN WEEK

Loans and advances from the Dutch Central Bank to the commercial banks rose by 1.2 billion guilders to 10.7 billion in the week up to and including April 6, the Bank's weekly return showed. Paper discounted with the Bank also rose, by 477 mln guilders to 916 mln. These rises were balanced by a 1.6 billion guilders rise in the Treasury's account at the Bank, made up mainly of repayments on housing loans by local authorities. The Treasury's account stood at 8.1 billion guilders, the weekly return showed. The Bank's gold and currency reserves rose by 484 mln to 56.89 billion guilders, while the value of non-gold holdings rose by 140 mln guilders, analysts said. They added that the rise in the reserves was merely the result of commercial currency transactions by the Bank. Call money and period tariffs were only fractionally changed this week and were seen sustaining their stable levels since no dramatic changes in the money market debt, currently around 10.25 billion guilders, are expected. Today call money traded between 5-3/8 to 5-1/2 pct and period tariffs all between 5-5/16 to 5-7/16 pct. REUTER 






SOUTH KOREAN WON FIXED AT 25-MONTH HIGH

THE BANK OF KOREA SAID IT FIXED THE MIDRATE OF THE WON AT 844.30 TO THE DOLLAR, ITS HIGHEST LEVEL SINCE FEBRUARY 26, 1985, WHEN IT WAS 843.90. THE WON WAS SET at 845.50 YESTERDAY. THE WON HAS RISEN 2.03 PCT AGAINST THE DOLLAR SO FAR THIS YEAR, AFTER RISING 3.34 PCT IN 1986. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK ALLOCATES 6.1 BILLION MARKS IN TENDER

The Bundesbank accepted bids for 6.1 billion marks at today's tender for a 28-day securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks, which bid for a total 12.2 billion marks liquidity, will be credited with the funds allocated today and must buy back securities pledged on May 6. Some 14.9 billion marks will drain from the market today as an earlier pact expires, so the Bundesbank is effectively withdrawing a net 8.1 billion marks from the market with today's allocation. A Bundesbank spokesman said in answer to enquiries that the withdrawal of funds did not reflect a tightening of credit policy, but was to be seen in the context of plentiful liquidity in the banking system. Banks held an average 59.3 billion marks at the Bundesbank over the first six days of the month, well clear of the likely April minimum reserve requirement of 51 billion marks. The Bundesbank spokesman noted that by bidding only 12.2 billion marks, below the outgoing 14.9 billion, banks themselves had shown they felt they had plenty of liquidity. Dealers said the Bundesbank is keen to prevent too much liquidity accruing in the market, as that would blunt the effectiveness of the security repurchase agreement, its main open-market instrument for steering market interest rates. Two further pacts are likely this month over the next two weeks. The Bundesbank is currently steering call money between 3.6 and 3.8 pct, although short-term fluctuations outside that range are possible, dealers said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 505 mln stg, while bills for repurchase by the market will remove around 194 mln. In addition, a rise in note circulation and bankers' balances below target will each drain around 110 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add some 690 mln stg to the system today. REUTER 
BANK OF FRANCE TO HOLD MONEY MARKET TENDER TODAY

The Bank of France said it has invited offers of first category paper today for a money market intervention tender. Money market operators were divided over whether the Bank of France will use to occasion to cut its intervention rate, which has stood at 7-3/4 pct since March 9. Some thought a price cut unlikely while others said there was room for a further 1/4 point cut by the bank. REUTER 
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE

European currency markets reacted quietly to the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealers ranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete to surprise that the markets should have expected so much. The dollar opened lower against virtually all currencies and traded in a narrow range after the communique, which reaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currency stabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it. Dealers in Frankfurt and Zurich saw the dollar remaining broadly entrenched in its current trading range. "The dollar is likely to stay within a range of 1.80 to 1.84 marks," said Gisela Steinhaeuser, senior dealer at Chase Bank AG. She said there was some resistance to further climbs. However, she said the dollar could break out of the range with major surprises such as a worse-than-expected U.S. Merchandise trade deficit, due next Tuesday. Theodor Stadelmann, dealer with Bank Julius Baer and Co Ltd in Zurich, said he expects the dollar to hold steady against the mark and Swiss franc but to weaken further against the yen, possibly to 140 yen. A Milan banker shared Stadelmann's view, saying he expects a dollar-yen range of 140-150 in the short term. London traders said the G-7 communique failed to curb underlying bearishness toward the dollar but this negative sentiment was not yet strong enough to tempt interbank operators to test the downside. Concern that finance ministers and officials still in Washington could issue more concrete statements in favour of currency stabilisation kept players sidelined, along with worries about provoking fresh central bank intervention in the near term, the traders said. Most Paris dealers expressed disappointment at the communique, saying nothing has changed to reverse the dollar's downward trend. Traders in several centres said the market would look for fresh opportunities to test the willingness of central banks to defend current ranges, which the communique said were "broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting." Dave Jouhin, senior dealer at Midland Bank in London, said "They're going to put somebody's resolve to the test soon." The U.S. February trade data may provide the trigger, dealers said. However, some dealers said London-based operators would be unlikely to open major positions next week ahead of the long Easter weekend. They saw near-term technical support at 1.825 marks and 145 yen and resistance about 1.83 marks and 146 yen. Chase Bank's Steinhaeuser and other Frankfurt dealers said the G-7 communique guaranteed a relatively calm and stable market for the foreseeable future compared with the extreme volatility seen in the first few months of this year. One dealer at a German bank said the wording of the communique made clear the leading nations did not want a further dollar drop, and this was supporting the dollar. The German dealer saw the dollar gradually appreciating to 1.87 marks, broadly seen as its upper limit within the Louvre accord's supposed currency target range. A Swiss bank economist said he believed the markets were ready for a period of "mainly sideways movement." But Milan dealers were sceptical about the communique contributing to greater stability. "Nothing has changed substantially to give the dollar a big boost," said one dealer, while another Italian banker said he expects the dollar to trade between 1.77 and 1.87 German marks in the next three months. A Swiss monetary source, who asked not to be named, said the communique had been in line with realistic expectations and should not have produced disappointment. "The problem is that the changes needed in fiscal and trade policies to redress current imbalances are of a different timescale than currency markets operate on," the source told Reuters, "This is a political process which takes time." Alois Schwietert, chief economist at Swiss Bank Corp in Basle, also questioned the tone of disappointment evident on currency markets today. "Did people really expect a patent remedy?" he asked. Bank economists in Paris noted yesterday's meeting was only the first in a series and said the market would watch carefully in the next few weeks for any changes in positions. A senior economist with Banque Indosuez said the focus was now on trade and growth rather than interest rates. Any move by Japan and West Germany to boost their economic growth could lead to a quick change in the U.S. Position. Dealers in all centres agreed that markets would be wary in pushing the dollar too far too quickly in the coming months while central banks appear resolved to use their muscle to support the Paris accord. REUTER 
SWISS TO LAUNCH NEW SERIES OF MONEY MARKET PAPER

The Swiss Federal Government will launch a new series of three month money market certificates totalling around 150 mln Swiss francs, the National Bank said. Subscriptions close April 14 and payment date is April 16. The last series of three month paper issued in March raised 147.3 mln francs at an issue price of 99.142 pct, giving an average annual yield of 3.501 pct. REUTER 
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE

European currency markets reacted quietly to the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealers ranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete to surprise that the markets should have expected so much. The dollar opened lower against virtually all currencies and traded in a narrow range after the communique, which reaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currency stabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it. Frankfurt and Zurich dealers saw the dollar staying broadly entrenched in its current trading range. REUTER 
EUROPEAN MARKETS REACT QUIETLY TO G-7 COMMUNIQUE

European currency markets reacted quietly to the G-7 communique, with comments from bankers and dealers ranging from disappointment that it was not more concrete to surprise that the markets should have expected so much. The dollar opened lower against virtually all currencies and traded in a narrow range after the communique, which reaffirmed support for the Paris accord on currency stabilisation but contained no moves to strengthen it. Dealers in Frankfurt and Zurich saw the dollar remaining broadly entrenched in its current trading range. "The dollar is likely to stay within a range of 1.80 to 1.84 marks," said Gisela Steinhaeuser, senior dealer at Chase Bank AG. She said there was some resistance to further climbs. However, she said the dollar could break out of the range with major surprises such as a worse-than-expected U.S. Merchandise trade deficit, due next Tuesday. Theodor Stadelmann, dealer with Bank Julius Baer and Co Ltd in Zurich, said he expects the dollar to hold steady against the mark and Swiss franc but to weaken further against the yen, possibly to 140 yen. A Milan banker shared Stadelmann's view, saying he expects a dollar-yen range of 140-150 in the short term. London traders said the G-7 communique failed to curb underlying bearishness toward the dollar but this negative sentiment was not yet strong enough to tempt interbank operators to test the downside. Concern that finance ministers and officials still in Washington could issue more concrete statements in favour of currency stabilisation kept players sidelined, along with worries about provoking fresh central bank intervention in the long term, the traders said. Most Paris dealers expressed disappointment at the communique, saying nothing has changed to reverse the dollar's downward trend. Traders in several centres said the market would look for fresh opportunities to test the willingness of central banks to defend current ranges, which the communique said were "broadly consistent with economic fundamentals and the basic policy intentions outlined at the Louvre meeting." Dave Jouhin, senior dealer at Midland Bank in London, said "They're going to put somebody's resolve to the test soon." The U.S. February trade data may provide the trigger, dealers said. However, some dealers said London-based operators would be unlikely to open major positions next week ahead of the long Easter weekend. They saw near-term technical support at 1.825 marks and 145 yen and resistance about 1.83 marks and 146 yen. Chase Bank's Steinhaeuser and other Frankfurt dealers said the G-7 communique guaranteed a relatively calm and stable market for the foreseeable future compared with the extreme volatility seen in the first few months of this year. One dealer at a German bank said the wording of the communique made clear the leading nations did not want a further dollar drop, and this was supporting the dollar. The German dealer saw the dollar gradually appreciating to 1.87 marks, broadly seen as its upper limit within the Louvre accord's supposed currency target range. A Swiss bank economist said he believed the markets were ready for a period of "mainly sideways movement." But Milan dealers were sceptical about the communique contributing to greater stability. "Nothing has changed substantially to give the dollar a big boost," said one dealer, while another Italian banker said he expects the dollar to trade between 1.77 and 1.87 German marks in the next three months. Reuter 
 BUNDESBANK SEES NO REASON TO CHANGE MONETARY COURSE -
VICE-PRESIDENT SCHLESINGER



LEBANESE POUND FALLS SHARPLY AGAINST DOLLAR

The Lebanese Pound fell sharply against the U.S. Dollar again today with dealers attributing the decline to continued political uncertainty. The pound closed at 118.25/118.75 against the dollar compared to yesterday's close of 115.60/115.80. "Political deadlock is reflected in the pound's position. There was more demand and less on offer in the market," one dealer told Reuters. The pound, which was at 18 to the dollar in January, 1986, has lost more than 30 pct of its international value over the past three months. REUTER 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS FLOATING EXCHANGE RATE SYSTEM NEEDS GREATER STABILITY



KENYA DEVALUES SHILLING BY 0.6 PCT AGAINST SDR

Kenya devalued the shilling by 0.6 pct against the special drawing right (SDR) in response to the decline of the dollar last last week, bankers said. The Central Bank of Kenya set the shilling at 20.7449 to the SDR compared with the 20.6226 rate in force since the last devaluation on March 31. The Kenyan shilling has lost 5.6 pct of its value against the SDR this year in a series of devaluations designed to keep the value of the dollar above 16 shillings. REUTER 
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSITS SURGE ON U.S. RATE RISE

Saudi riyal interbank deposit rates surged across the board as banks tried to build long positions in anticipation of a further rise in U.S. Interest rates, dealers said. They said traders expected riyal deposits to follow the recent strong rise in eurodollar rates sparked by fears of a tighter U.S. Monetary policy to halt the dollar's slide. "There was a wave of panic buying early in the morning as people tried to cover gaps and build long riyal positions," said one dealer. As a result, riyal deposits were strongly bid and traders scrambled for any available offers. One-way trade focused mainly on the fixed periods but short dates also rose, dealers said. Spot-next and one-week deposits climbed to 6-5/8, 1/8 pct from 6-3/8, six on Sunday. One-month deposits rose to 6-1/2, 3/8 pct from 6-1/4, six and three-month deposits climbed to 6-3/4, 5/8 pct from 6-9/16, 7/16. Six-month deposits also firmed to 7-1/8, seven pct from 7-1/16, 6-7/8 on Sunday. The spot riyal was steady at 3.7500/03 to the dollar after quotes of 3.7498/7503 yesterday. REUTER 
YIELD ON 91-DAY SAMA DEPOSITS RISES

The yield on 91-day bankers security deposit accounts issued this week by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA) rose to 6.43896 pct from 6.21563 a week ago, bankers said. SAMA lowered the offer price on the 500 mln riyal issue to 98.39844 from 98.45313 last Monday. Like-dated interbank deposits were quoted today at 6-3/4, 5/8 pct. SAMA offers a total of 1.9 billion riyals in 30, 91 and 180-day accounts to banks in the Kingdom each week. REUTER 
ZAMBIA'S KWACHA FALLS AT WEEKLY AUCTION

The Zambian kwacha fell at this week's foreign exchange auction to 18.75 kwacha to the dollar from last week's 16.95, the Bank of Zambia said. The rate was the lowest since the auctions resumed two weeks ago under a new two-tier exchange rate system worked out with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund. The Bank of Zambia said it received 370 bids, ranging from 13.00 to 20.75 kwacha, for the six mln dlrs on offer. One hundred and thirty-five bids were successful. A British High Commission spokesman said Britain would put eight mln stg into the auction at a rate of one mln a week as soon as Zambia reached a full agreement with the IMF. The money could be spent only on goods produced and supplied by British firms, excluding luxuries and defence equipment, the spokesman added. Reuter 
WORLD BANK SUGGESTS MORE OPEN ECONOMY FOR INDIA

The World Bank has suggested India should move to a more open economy by gradually removing most government controls on industry and adopting a liberal external trade policy with reduced levels of protection. A confidential "executive summary" of a draft Bank report on the Indian economy was made available to Reuters. It suggests liberalisation as part of a package of reforms to boost exports of Indian goods by making them more competitive. The summary said, "These reforms would result in (domestic) prices much more in line with world prices than is true today, and in a greater degree of import competition and export rivalry than the nation has ever seen." The summary said foreign trade must play a key role in India's transition towards a more dynamic economy. Liberal imports of capital goods would help modernise the economy and expose Indian producers to foreign competition. Larger exports would provide the foreign exchange for imports. "The main guideline is unambiguously to abandon the present principle of unlimited protection for all indigenously available products and to recognise the role of actual or potential competition from imports as a source of discipline on the prices and costs of public and private sector domestic manufacturers," the summary said. An Indian official told Reuters the government was discussing the report with the Bank. A final report with some changes was likely to be ready by May, but he declined to give further details. The Bank and industrialised nations will discuss the Bank's final report at a meeting in Paris on June 22 and 23 to discuss aid for India in the 1987/88 year starting in June. The summary said India's gross domestic product (gdp) grew at an average five pct in Indian fiscal years 1985/86 and 1986/87, which ended in March. It said investment was being sustained at nearly 25 pct of gdp. Almost 94 pct of the investment was being financed by national savings, mainly from the private sector. India's trade deficit is officially said to have narrowed to 5.6 billion dlrs in 1986/87 ended March, from a record 6.96 billion dlrs in 1985/86. The current account deficit fell to 2.4 billion dlrs in 1986/87 from 2.88 billion in 1985/86. But the summary said the improvement was largely due to lower prices of crude oil, petroleum products and fertilisers which make up the bulk of India's import bill. India was able to save about 2.6 billion dlrs in foreign exchange in 1986/87 due to lower prices of those products, the summary said. The Bank's summary said there was little room for complacency in the balance of payments position. It said that despite a lower trade deficit in 1986/87, Indian foreign exchange reserves fell by 240 mln dlrs. Real export growth would need to average at least 6.1 pct a year in value terms in the coming years to maintain a viable balance of payments, the summary said. It did not explicitly suggest the rupee should be devalued. India "might have to reaffirm the commitment to exporting while undertaking some dramatic changes in general incentives that involve some political costs," it said. "An example of such a policy would be the adoption of an exchange rate regime that maintained exporters' profitability," the summary said. It said such an approach had been successful in countries such as South Korea, Colombia and Turkey. It would maintain the competitiveness of Indian exports and simultaneously reduce import pressures. Earlier this year, the Indian government denied that the World Bank asked it to devalue the Indian rupee to boost exports. REUTER 
BELGIUM CUTS TREASURY CERTIFICATE RATES

The Belgian National Bank said it cut its one, two and three month treasury certificate rates effective immediately. It said in a telex message the key three month rate was reduced by 0.05 points to 7.25 pct, the two month rate by 0.10 points to 7.20 pct and the one month rate by 0.15 points to 7.15 pct. The Bank last adjusted its short-term treasury certificate rates on April 3, when all three rates were cut by 0.10 points. It has made regular small reductions in rates after hoisting the three month rate 0.50 points to 7.90 pct and the other rates to eight pct on January 6 ahead of the realignment of the European Monetary System. The National Bank bought more than 7.91 billion francs of foreign currency in the week ended April 13, a National Bank spokesman said last week. Foreign exchange analysts noted this reflects the current strength of the Belgian franc. REUTER 
SWISS NATIONAL BANK SELLS YEN AGAINST DOLLAR

The Swiss National Bank sold yen against dollars, joining in concerted intervention by central banks, a spokesman for the National Bank said. He declined to say which central banks had been active in the market, but earlier today Tokyo dealers said the Bank of Japan had intervened at 142.10 yen to the dollar, and market sources here said they believed the Bundesbank was in the market as well. The National Bank spokesman declined to specify the volume of its dollar purchases or the rate paid. REUTER 
CREATIVE MONETARY POLICY TO SPUR KUWAITI ECONOMY

Kuwait, a major oil producer hit by last year's price slump, is leaning towards a more creative monetary policy to help spur its economy, banking sources said. "There is a clear emphasis on encouraging the use of money in productive ventures, rather than having it all tied up in interest bearing investments which have no direct productive outlet," one banker said. Kuwait's Central Bank yesterday cut one key money market rate and abandoned another which had been used since February 1986 to direct inter-bank borrowing and lending costs. The bank reduced to six pct from 6-1/2 pct the rate at which it will offer funds of one month to one year in the inter-bank market. This, in turn, affected retail rates. The cut, the third this year, followed a major overhaul of interest rate policy last month which Central Bank Governor Sheikh Salem Abdul-Aziz al-Sabah said was designed to revive the economy. One banker said "There is growing flexibility, creativity, in interest rate policy, amid an awareness of the need to diversify the economy by stimulating the non-oil sector." For the first time in nearly three years domestic interest rates are now significantly below those for the U.S. Dollar, a favourite haven for Gulf speculative and investor funds in the past, banking sources said. Despite uncertainties generated by the 6-1/2 year old Iran- Iraq war on Kuwait's northern doorstep, bankers play down the prospect of any significant capital flight. The Kuwaiti dinar, whose value is set by the Central Bank and was fixed today at 0.27095/129 to the dollar, is stronger now than for several years. Fears that the dollar may fall further will prompt second thoughts among Kuwaiti investors prepared to consider switching funds into the U.S. Currency, the sources said. "There is a distinct exchange rate risk," they added. Bankers said the dollar slump hurt many investors behind the last major capital outflow in 1984, encouraged then by 18 pct U.S. Interest rates and the start of Iranian attacks on neutral shipping in the Gulf. The Central Bank calculates its dinar exchange rate against a basket of currencies. Bankers do not know the basket's exact make-up but say it is weighted heavily in favour of the dollar. Some bankers believe any strengthening of the dinar beyond 0.27000 to the dollar might provoke investors into shifting funds into the U.S. Currency. "They may ask:When will the dollar be so cheap again?" one said. And with dinar interest rates now roughly one pct below those for the dollar, they say the Central Bank faces a delicate balancing role requiring further flexibility. Bankers said the current, expansionary interest rate policy is only part of a broader attempt to encourage local investment and strengthen the backbone of the economy. They estimate the economy, measured in terms of GDP and allowing for inflation, shrank 19 pct in 1986 after an 8.1 pct contraction the previous year. Bankers also noted recent measures to stimulate stock market activity, capped today by sharp cuts in brokerage fees to make it cheaper for investors to trade. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES IN TOKYO MARKET

The Bank of Japan intervened just after the Tokyo market opened to support the dollar from falling below 140.00 yen, dealers said. The central bank bought a moderate amount of dollars to prevent its decline amid bearish sentiment for the U.S. Currency, they said. The dollar opened at a record Tokyo low of 140.00 yen against 140.70/80 in New York and 141.15 at the close here yesterday. The previous Tokyo low was 140.55 yen set on April 15. REUTER 
SWISS COMMITTED TO JOINT CURRENCY INTERVENTION

The Swiss National Bank will continue to take part in concerted intervention on currency markets as necessary, president Pierre Languetin told the bank's annual meeting. He said the dollar had on occasion hit highs or lows which bore no relation to economic fundamentals and cooperation between all monetary authorities was necessary to prevent it breaching thresholds that would damage everyone. "We are resolved -- as we have done in the past -- to take part in concerted intervention to the extent that this is possible and desirable," Languetin said. Languetin said Switzerland had noted with satisfaction the six nation Paris accord on currency stabilisation measures in February, adding that it had anchored the principle of strengthened international cooperation. He said measures such as recent concerted intervention were useful in the short term. But he added, "The (Paris) Louvre accord can produce no lasting effects without a correction of the fundamental imbalances, without a reduction of the American budget deficit and without stronger growth in Europe and Japan." Languetin said certain changes would probably be necessary in the "too expansive" monetary policy of the United States, adding that there was a prevailing view that U.S. Money supply was expanding too strongly. "If this should last long the dollar could only be stabilised at the cost of a substantial easing in monetary policy on the part of the other central banks, which would in turn create the basis for a new wave of world-wide inflation," he said. One positive factor was that monetary authorities in the most important countries had not relinquished their anti-inflation policies. REUTER 
BANK OF SPAIN RAISES INTEREST RATES

The Bank of Spain announced a one-point rise in overnight call money rates to 16-5/8 pct, which a central bank spokesman said was part of government efforts to control money supply growth. The increase came after yesterday's one-point rise and pushed interbank rates to 19 19-1/2 pct from 18-1/8 19 pct. The M-4 money supply, liquid assets in public hands, the broadest measure of money supply, rose 14.1 pct in the first three months compared with this year's eight pct target. Money supply growth was 11.4 pct last year. REUTER 
NO SWISS NATIONAL BANK INTERVENTION SEEN

A Swiss National Bank spokesman said the bank had not intervened in currency markets today and dealers said they had seen no evidence of Bundesbank action outside West Germany. Frankfurt dealers reported that the Bundesbank bought dollars for yen in the open market there. Zurich dealers said the absence of the Swiss National Bank suggested that no concerted intervention was under way. Asked earlier today if the Swiss National Bank had intervened, the spokesman said "not yet." REUTER 
DEALERS SEE MODERATE DUTCH CENTRAL BANK YEN SALES

The Dutch central bank has intervened in the currency markets today, in apparent concerted action with other central banks, foreign exchange dealers said. They detected selling of the yen for dollars, which some estimated would run to a moderate 200 mln guilders, comparable to token Dutch intervention reported last week. Other dealers, however, said they believed today's moderate intervention had been in guilders against dollar. The dealers agreed the intervention was minimal and more a political gesture than a market moving force. REUTER 
DEALERS SEE MODERATE DUTCH CENTRAL BANK YEN SALES

The Dutch central bank has intervened in the currency markets today, in apparent concerted action with other central banks, foreign exchange dealers said. They detected selling of the yen for dollars, which some estimated would run to a moderate 200 mln guilders, comparable to token Dutch intervention reported last week. Other dealers, however, said they believed today's moderate intervention had been in guilders against dollar. The dealers agreed the intervention was minimal and more a political gesture than a market moving force. REUTER 
SWISS SAY THEY INTERVENED WITH BUNDESBANK AND FED

The Swiss National Bank bought dollars and sold yen in concerted action along with the Bundesbank and the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, a bank spokesman told Reuters. "We intervened in dollar-yen with the Bundesbank and the Fed," he said. He declined to specify the extent of the intervention, which took place at around 1200 GMT, after reports by Frankfurt dealers the Bundesbank was in the market. The intervention failed to prevent the dollar dipping to 1.4548 Swiss francs at around 1320 GMT, close to its all-time low of 1.4510 francs set on September 26, 1978. It then steadied to 1.4560/75 francs. REUTER 
UGANDAN GOVERNMENT PROPOSES NEW TAXES

The Ugandan government, in its four year investment and development plan, proposed taxing land and food crops in an attempt to broaden its revenue base away from dependence on coffee sales. The government also said in the plan, made available to Reuters, that a devaluation of the Ugandan shilling would do little to redress a chronic balance of payments deficit. The plan, the first since President Yoweri Museveni took power 15 months ago, seeks to raise 2.4 billion dlrs in investment funds from abroad between 1987 and 1991. It says the government had already secured 1.4 billion dlrs in pledges before Islamic lenders promised a further 494 mln dlrs at a conference in Kampala last week. Uganda already had an external debt of 984 mln dlrs at the end of 1986 and in the nine months of the current budget debt servicing will cost 204 mln dlrs, almost 50 pct of export earnings of 431 mln, the plan said. The new fiscal measures include a proposed tax on large land holdings, regardless of whether the owners are exploiting them, and taxes on maize, beans and other crops sold by the Produce Marketing Board. The plan says the aim is to spread the tax burden, which in Uganda has traditionally fallen almost exclusively on coffee farmers. Coffee provides over 90 pct of foreign exchange earnings and more than 70 pct of government revenue. On exchange rate policy, it repeats Museveni's argument that any form of fotation would not help allocating resources. Western governments and multilateral funds say the Ugandan shilling is grossly overvalued and the government must change the exchange rate if it wishes to encourage investment. The shilling sells on the black market at more than 15,000 to the dollar, compared with an official rate of 1,400. REUTER 
BANK OF FINLAND EASES REFERENCE RATE RESTRICTIONS

The Bank of Finland said it was reducing restrictions on the use of money market rates as reference rates for loans. The Bank would start quoting money market rates referred to as HELIBOR (Helsinki Interbank Offered Rate). Banks may henceforth use these as reference rates in their lending, it said. From May 1 the banks would be allowed, without special central bank approval, to use as a reference rate not only its base rate but also other Bank of Finland rates or the official money market rate used in market transactions. A derivative of these could also be used, the statement said. But housing loans would be excepted and their lending rate would, as formerly, be linked directly or indirectly to the Bank of Finland's base rate. The new guidelines involve mainly two changes. Money market rates in future would be used as reference rates for loans with a maturity of over five years and the introduction of a new reference rate would no longer require central bank approval. The decision was made as a continuation of the central bank's process of liberalisation, it said. REUTER 
UAE TO COORDINATE EXCHANGE RATES WITH GCC

United Arab Emirates (UAE) Central Bank Governor Abdel Malik al-Hamar said any changes in the UAE"s exchange rate policy would be carried out in conjunction with other Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. In a speech opening a seminar on Arab exchange rate policies, he noted the UAE had not changed the value of the dirham against the U.S. Dollar since 1980 despite wide fluctuations in the latter"s value against other currencies. "The exchange rate policy of the dirham has realised its goals in the past and changes in this policy depend on coordination and cooperation with other GCC countries," he said. The GCC states -- the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait -- have agreed in principle to link their currencies to a common grid. Their currencies are now linked either to the dollar, IMF special drawing right (SDR) or, in the case of Kuwait, a trade-weighted basket of international currencies. The UAE dirham can fluctuate within a band of 7.25 pct higher or lower than 4.7619 to the SDR but has been fixed at 3.671 to the dollar since November 1980. REUTER 
SAUDI RIYAL DEPOSITS STEADY IN DULL MARKET

Saudi riyal interbank deposits were mainly steady at yesterday"s higher levels in a market which saw little activity due to the European weekend, dealers said. They said banks in the kingdom offered two and three month deposits 1/16 of a percentage point lower, but there were few takers. Rates for short-dated and other fixed period funds were little changed following their sharp rise on Saturday brought on by higher eurodollar deposit rates. Spot-next and one-week deposits were relatively unchanged at 6-3/4, 1/2 pct. One-month deposits were steady at 6-3/4, 1/2 pct while three-month funds eased to 6-7/8, 5/8 pct from 6-15/16, 11/16. Six-month deposits also declined marginally to 7-5/16, 7-1/8 pct from quotes of 7-3/8, 1/8 at the close of trade on Saturday. The spot riyal was steady at 3.7499/7504 to the dollar. REUTER 
BALLADUR URGES ADHERENCE TO G-7 CURRENCY ACCORDS

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the Group of Seven major industrial nations, G-7, can achieve stable currency values by adhering to accords reached this year in Paris and Washington. Balladur, asked at a news conference if coordinated market intervention by central banks was sufficient to halt the dollar's recent slide, said "each country has to fulfill commitments" outlined in the G-7 accords. Earlier this month in Washington, finance ministers of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canada reaffirmed an earlier Paris accord to arrest the dollar's fall. Balladur said the current nervousness in foreign exchange markets can be partly attributed to "some operators in the market only watching short term economic indicators. You have to keep a cool head," he said, declining to elaborate further. In an earlier speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce, the minister said European countries have to seek "a better consensus of economic and monetary policies." On the European Monetary System, he said, "The persistent vulnerability of the foreign currency mechanism, particularly to the movements of the dollar, can be explained by the absence of a common policy for currencies of other countries." Balladur said, "I am profoundly convinced that the European countries have to define together this position with respect to the dollar and the yen." He said Italy eventually would have to abandon its higher margin of fluctuation within the European Montetary System. "I hope that the spectacular improvement of the economic situation and of the balance of payments will permit (Italy) to do it soon." The lira is currently allowed a fluctuation margin either side of its agreed midpoints with other EMS currencies of six pct, against 2.25 pct permitted for the other members. REUTER 
DUTCH CENTRAL BANK INTERVENES TO SUPPORT DOLLAR

The Dutch Central Bank intervened modestly to support the dollar with spot market transactions, dealers said. They said the bank bought dollars against guilders as the U.S. Currency dipped to a low of 2.0013 guilders from 2.0130-40 on opening, the lowest since the end of January. There was no intervention at the fix, however, which put the dollar at 2.0045 guilders after 2.0280 last Friday, and dealers said the Bank's buying was limited. "I'd be surprised if the Bank had bought as much as 100 mln dlrs," one dealer said. Reuter 
TAIWAN CENTRAL BANK DEFENDS DOLLAR RESERVES POLICY

Central Bank governor Chang Chi-cheng defended Taiwan's policy of holding a large amount of its foreign exchange reserves in U.S. Dollars, citing similar policies followed by countries such as West Germany and Japan. The reserves, now a record 56 billion U.S. Dlrs, are the world's largest after those of West Germany and Japan. About 90 pct is held in U.S. Dollars and the rest in yen and marks. Chang's remarks to parliament were in response to a call on Monday by about 20 members of the parliament who asked the government to diversify into other currencies, including yen, marks and Swiss francs because of exchange rate losses. The legislators said the bank lost about 3.8 billion U.S. Dlrs between September 1985 and September 1986 as the Taiwan dollar rose to 36.77 to the U.S. Dollar from 40.45. They said they expected the losses to continue because of the rising Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Currency. Chang said the central bank could not sell the U.S. Dollars like other private banks or enterprises because such trading would be speculative and risky. "The U.S. Dollar is an international currency and is widely used among trading nations," he added. Chang said the Central Bank has further revised foreign exchange rules, which would relax most controls or even suspend them. The revised rules have been submitted to the cabinet for approval, he said. He declined to give details. REUTER 
SWISS PREPARED TO INCREASE CURRENCY INTERVENTION

The Swiss National Bank is prepared to increase its intervention on currency markets if the action can be properly coordinated with other central banks, Markus Lusser, a member of the Bank's three man directorate, said. He told a meeting of Swiss industrialists that intervention to support the dollar could not bring about lasting changes in exchange rates unless accompanied by fundamental changes in economic policy. However, intervention could send signals that would contribute to a short term smoothing of currency movements. The National Bank was prepared to intensify cooperation with other central banks, especially where convincing coordination and significant timing are guaranteed, Lusser said. He said currency developments could not simply be talked into existence but needed to be matched by actions in the field of economic policy. "Put simply, that means that in order to stabilise the dollar in a lasting way, a reduction of the budget deficit and a slowdown in money supply growth in the United States are unavoidable," he said. The National Bank has intervened in dollar-yen repeatedly in the last few weeks and earlier this week it said it had intervened in dollar-Swiss franc for the first time since last October. Lusser said the key to increased exchange rate stability lay not in currency intervention by central banks but only in an improvement in international economic policy coordination. This meant that industrial countries must avoid abrupt switches in economic policy and give priority to price stability. Lusser said the National Bank continued to take the view that easing its strict monetary policies would be incompatible with its primary goal of combatting inflation. The bank target is for growth of two pct in central bank money supply in 1987. He noted that in 1978, when the Swiss franc rose sharply against all currencies, the bank was forced to abandon its money supply targets in favour of an exchange rate target, with the result that inflation surged. "Current exchange rate developments have not, until today at any rate, made any such measures by the National Bank necessary," he said. REUTER 
SWISS PREPARED TO INCREASE CURRENCY INTERVENTION

The Swiss National Bank is prepared to increase its intervention on currency markets if the action can be properly coordinated with other central banks, Markus Lusser, a member of the Bank's three man directorate, said. He told a meeting of Swiss industrialists that intervention to support the dollar could not bring about lasting changes in exchange rates unless accompanied by fundamental changes in economic policy. However, intervention could send signals that would contribute to a short term smoothing of currency movements. The National Bank was prepared to intensify cooperation with other central banks, especially where convincing coordination and significant timing are guaranteed, Lusser said. He said currency developments could not simply be talked into existence but needed to be matched by actions in the field of economic policy. "Put simply, that means that in order to stabilise the dollar in a lasting way, a reduction of the budget deficit and a slowdown in money supply growth in the United States are unavoidable," he said. The National Bank has intervened in dollar-yen repeatedly in the last few weeks and earlier this week it said it had intervened in dollar-Swiss franc for the first time since last October. Lusser said the key to increased exchange rate stability lay not in currency intervention by central banks but only in an improvement in international economic policy coordination. This meant that industrial countries must avoid abrupt switches in economic policy and give priority to price stability. Lusser said the National Bank continued to take the view that easing its strict monetary policies would be incompatible with its primary goal of combatting inflation. The bank target is for growth of two pct in central bank money supply in 1987. He noted that in 1978, when the Swiss franc rose sharply against all currencies, the bank was forced to abandon its money supply targets in favour of an exchange rate target, with the result that inflation surged. "Current exchange rate developments have not, until today at any rate, made any such measures by the National Bank necessary," he said. REUTER 
EGYPT FUEL PRICE INCREASES PART OF REFORM PACKAGE

Egypt has embarked on reforms sought by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank by raising the price of diesel oil and other types of transport fuels. The energy price increases were the first visible measures taken in return for IMF standby credits and World Bank loans. Effective today, fuel oil prices were trebled and prices of gas oil, diesel and kerosene went up by over 50 pct, an Egyptian General Petroleum Corp (EGPC) official said. He said fuel oil will sell for 28 Egyptian pounds a ton, instead of 7.5 pounds. Kerosene and gas oil were raised by 66 pct to sell for five piasters a litre, while diesel rose 50 pct to 4.5 piasters. The government is expected also to act soon, possibly as early as next weekend, to simplify the country's complex exchange rate system, bankers said. Moving towards a more realistic exchange rate for the pound was part of a package of reforms sought by the IMF and creditor governments. In return, Egypt stands to receive up to one billion dlrs in IMF standby credits phased over three years to help it repay its 38.6 billion dlr foreign debt and guarantee rescheduling by western governments, the main creditors. Energy price increases were also a condition of progress on World Bank project loans of up to 800 mln dlrs in energy, communications and other sectors which have been under negotiation for several months, western diplomats said. The U.S. And Western Europe have pledged political backing for President Hosni Mubarak's government, committed to a multi-party political system and peace with Israel and strategically poised in control of the Suez Canal. Fuel price rises, postponed at least once and likely to lead to higher retail prices of basic goods, were a test of the government's resolve to pursue economic reform, diplomats said. But the new prices are still below world market levels. There was no announcement of increases in more politically sensitive products such as gasoline or natural gas, used for cooking, and the mass-circulation Al-Akhbar newspaper said they would stay the same. Official comment was not available on speculation among bankers and diplomats that the Central Bank would soon tinker with the pound's exchange rates to try to channel more dollars into the banking system away from the illegal but tolerated free market. The Central Bank was expected to set up a committee in which 10 commercial banks, including the four state-owned banks, would decide the pound's value every day. The official "incentive rate," currently set by the Central Bank daily, is around 1.36 pounds to the dollar, against 2.15 on the free market. Bankers predicted that the banks' committee might set rates around 1.80 or 1.90. But some doubted this would serve the aim of curbing the free market. REUTER 
REAGAN SAYS U.S., ALLIES MUST HONOR ACCORDS ON EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY



VENEZUELA TIGHTENS FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS

Venezuela's central bank has ordered Venezuelan banks and exchange houses to cease foreign exchange operations with brokers based outside the country, according to a copy of a central bank telex made available to Reuters. The measure, confirmed by a brokerage firm here, has effectively cut off all foreign participation in Venezuela's volatile currency market. The telex, issued on May 19, was signed by Carlos Hernandez Delfino, manager of the bank's department of international operations. The telex said the restriction on business with foreign brokers is in line with an earlier measure prohibiting foreign exchange houses from selling dollars or other foreign currencies to anyone living outside Venezuela. In recent weeks the Venezuelan government has denied rumours that it intends to impose foreign exchange controls to prop up the weakening bolivar. But brokers said the central bank's move is seen as a de facto currency control. "It is definitely a control in the sense that there's no longer complete freedom to operate," one broker here said. "Gradually they're imposing restrictions and the direction is towards complete control," the broker said. The broker, who requested anonymity, said virtually all his Venezuelan customers had stopped doing business with him since the central bank issued the telex and followed it up with telephone calls. He said that before the restriction was imposed the volume of his firm's transactions with Venezuela was about 10 mln dlrs a day. "It was a frenetic market, it was really quite active," he said. The broker said he saw no logical explanation for the prohibition because his firm only acted act as an intermediary between Venezuelan brokers, exchange houses and banks. "We weren't buying dollars from Venezuelans, that's ridiculous," he said. "They've been on a rampage against foreigners." The broker noted that two months ago Venezuela's central bank quietly announced that banks doing foreign exchange business outside Venezuela would have to respect a new 200 pct reserve requirement. In February, the central bank also prohibited trading in bolivar futures, the broker said. "We used to have a forward market," he said. "For a small currency it was miraculous." He said the bolivar, which averaged 20.29 to the U.S. Dollar in 1986, would continue to slip from its current range of 28.35 to 28.50 because the central bank was rapidly running out of foreign reserves to support the currency on the free market. REUTER 
TAIWAN CURBS INFLOWS OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE

Taiwan's central bank announced that as from today the overseas foreign exchange borrowings of local and foreign banks would be frozen at the level they reached at the end of May. The central bank's statement added that the measure would be effective until the end of July. Bankers said the measure is designed to curb the inflow of foreign exchange and slow the growth of money supply. They added that the move, which sparked a record single day plunge of the local stock market, would limit their ability to lend foreign exchange to importers and exporters. Foreign exchange borrowings by local and foreign banks reached almost 12 billion U.S. Dlrs by the end of April, according to official statistics. Last week the central bank said that from today it would reduce its purchase of forward U.S. Dollars from banks to 40 pct from 90 pct of the value of the contract. It said the move was needed because of "distortions" in the foreign exchange market. Exporters, nervous about the appreciating Taiwan dollar, have been heavily selling forward U.S. Dollars on the interbank market to avoid exchange rate losses. Official figures show that forward U.S. Dollar sales in May reached a record of almost six billion U.S. Dlrs against 5.9 billion in April. All Taiwan's foreign exchange earnings must be converted into local dollars, boosting money supply at a time of booming exports. Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.86 pct in the year to end-April, raising fears of higher inflation. In March the central bank clamped tight restrictions on remittances of foreign exchange by companies and individuals to Taiwan in a move to curb inflows of speculative money. Economists and bankers estimate that the rising value of the local dollar has attracted about ten billion U.S. Dlrs of speculative money into Taiwan since early last year. It has flowed in mainly from Hong Kong, Japan and the U.S.. Since September 1985 the Taiwan dollar has risen by about 22 pct against the U.S. Dollar. Bankers said the government's efforts to stabilise the foreign exchange market were a prelude to lifting all curbs on capital outflows. The central bank has said the controls will be dropped by the end of July or early August. Foreign exchange dealers said today's announcement caused jitters in the market with foreign and local banks making heavy purchases of U.S. Dollars. They said the central bank sold about 30 mln U.S. Dlrs. Taiwan's stock market plunged a record 75.53 points to close at 1,803.08. REUTER 
KUWAITI DINAR RATES FIRM, AID WINDOW OPEN

Interest rates on Kuwaiti dinar deposits held firm in scattered trading despite a Central Bank decision to revive limited funding lines, dealers said. The Central Bank, which last Tuesday shut a daily aid window through which it lent funds of up to one year, reopened the facility for three month money, which was available at seven pct, they said. It offered one month funds at seven pct through swap facilities, dealers said. Today's Central Bank action, combined with sales of dollars by some banks, helped ease a recent credit squeeze engineered by the monetary authority to stem a rush for the U.S. Currency arising from attractive U.S. Interest rates and Gulf tension, dealers said. However, as one dealer noted: "The market is still unsettled." Overnight funds, bid at 20 pct at the outset of business, traded up to 30 pct before easing as liquidity dragged offers down to 10 pct by the close. Tomorrow-next, for which buy/sell quotes started at 30, 20 pct, ended at 14, eight. Spot-next was indicated at 8-1/2, seven after opening bids of 10. Dealers quoted one-week at eight, seven against an early 9-1/2, 7-1/2. One month rates were at the same level after trade at eight then 8-1/2. Dealers quoted three months at seven, 6-3/4 pct and six-month to one year funds at seven, six pct. They reported offshore offers of overnight at 10, tomorrow-next at eight and one year at 6-1/2 pct towards the close. The Central Bank fixed its dinar exchange rate steady at 0.27933/67 to the dollar, against yesterday's 0.27939/73. The spot dinar was 0.27930/40. REUTER 
GREENSPAN SAYS THERE IS EVIDENCE DOLLAR HAS BOTTOMED OUT



LEUTWILER WANTS FIRMER MARK AGAINST SFR

Fritz Leutwiler, chairman of BBC AG Brown Boveri und Cie and a former Swiss National Bank president, urged the National Bank to declare its intent of achieving a rising rate for the mark against the Swiss franc. In a speech to shareholders, Leutwiler said, "A gradually rising rate for the mark in relation to the franc would be desirable from the standpoint of industrial exports and with regard to sustaining Swiss industry." "Simply an appropriate declaration of intent by our bank of issue (Swiss National Bank) could have a positive effect," he said. Leutwiler, who served 10 years as head of the Swiss central bank, said such a step would not contradict the National Bank's target of monetary stability. "Bringing the franc close to the mark would, of course, have to be done step by step under the watchful eye of monetary policy," he told shareholders. "Realistically there is in fact no persuasive reason why the German currency is quoted almost 20 pct lower than the Swiss." A National Bank spokesman said the relation of the mark and Swiss franc was an example of stable currency parities over a long period of time. The spokesman said exchange rates were made by the market, not the central bank, and it would be impossible to influence individual parities separately. Leutwiler said the Swiss National Bank could not support the value of the dollar, even in conjunction with other central banks, without putting monetary stability in jeopardy. "I would be the last to recommend that. The key to a stronger dollar lies in the United States itself," Leutwiler said. REUTER 
Bank of Japan intervened buying small amount of dollars at 142.85 yen - dealers



TAIWAN PARLIAMENT BACKS FREE CAPITAL OUTFLOWS

Parliament approved a proposal to drop all controls on capital outflows, raising the prospect that Taiwan's vast resevoir of foreign exchange will flow into the world economy. A government spokesman said the new law would be promulgated by President Chiang Ching-Kuo within 10 days and financial authorities would then be empowered to lift controls on currency outflows at any time. Tight restrictions on capital inflows introduced this year will remain in place, the spokesman said. Central Bank Governor Chang Chi-Cheng has said the controls will be lifted at the end of next month or early in August. The central bank and finance ministry proposed lifting currency restrictions to help reduce Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves, which stand at about 60 billion U.S. Dlrs and have led to runaway growth in money supply. The reserves, the world's third largest after Japan and West Germany, also draw attention to Taiwan's huge trade surplus and the government fears they are making the island a target for U.S. Trade protectionism. The surplus rose 34 pct to a record 7.32 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first five months of this year and about 90 pct of it was with the United States. Money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 51.9 pct in the year to end-April, raising fears of higher inflation. Local bankers and economists say when the controls are lifted, businessmen will be allowed to buy foreign currency and invest it freely overseas. But they warn against expectations of a sudden outflow of capital. "I don't think we're going to see a big bang," John Brinsden, the Taiwan manager of Standard Chartered Bank told Reuters in a recent interview. Bankers said that businessmen have been holding vast quantities of foreign exchange overseas for many years and also have been freely buying and exporting currency through a flourishing black-market. "Obviously there will be an outflow of funds ... But I don't think it's going to be much," said Danny Chan, director of Fidelity Securities Investment Consulting Corp. Economists say the success of plans to encourage capital outflow depend on whether the central bank can slow the rise of the local currency. The Taiwan dollar has risen by about 23 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1983, prompting an inflow of speculative money. It rose by one Taiwan cent today to close at 31.08. The government spokesman said the new law does not empower authorities to permanently lift capital controls, but any proposal to reimpose them would need the approval of parliament. Many economists believe that once the controls are lifted it will be almost impossible to reimpose them. REUTER 
NEW ZEALAND BUDGET FORECAST SEEN AS POSITIVE

Analysts said they were surprised at the government's announcement of a forecast budget surplus for fiscal 1988 but said it was consistent with previous policy statements and positive for the economy. Finance Minister Roger Douglas predicted a budget surplus for the year ending March 1988 of 379 mln New Zealand dlrs against a 1.95 billion deficit last year. Analysts polled by Reuters said the forecast budget surplus was even more positive than the most bullish analysts' forecasts and that this was good news for financial markets. Market expectations among analysts questioned by Reuters before the budget varied widely between a balanced budget and a 2.3 billion dlr deficit. But none predicted a surplus. The forecast initially looks positive for both the bond and the foreign exchange markets, one analyst said. Paradoxically, the New Zealand dollar could rise in the medium term, despite lower interest rates, as overseas investors became more confident about investing in New Zealand, he said. However, some foreign exchange dealers disagreed, saying the local dollar is primarily interest rate driven and will move lower. The local dollar dropped to 0.5940/50 U.S. Dlrs in after hours trading, against 0.5970/77 just before the budget release. Analysts said the budget was also positive for the share market, despite an increase in the contribution of company taxation to revenue figures. One equities analyst predicted that the budget surplus announcement could push the share market up by 50 points tomorrow. The Budget statement was broadly as expected, with a continuation of existing policies, and the absence of traditional pre-election incentives would be viewed positively by overseas investors, another said. But one merchant bank economist said that certain anti-tax avoidance measures could damage some sectors of the share market, particularly multi-national companies. The government is also lowering its borrowing requirements, through bond tenders, as a result of the surplus. The requirement for the rest of the year is now down to 950 mln N.Z. Dlrs from a predicted 1.75 billion. Predicted revenue in the Budget looked sustainable and there appeared to be no holding back on expenditure, another economist said. He added that the document seemed entirely credible. "Altogether it looks good for Labour's election prospects," he said. An election is due before the end of September. REUTER 
FED'S SEGER SAYS FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKETS SHOWING SIGNS
OF STABILITY



FED SAYS IT SETS TWO BILLION DLRS OF CUSTOMER REPURCHASE
AGREEMENTS



Japan still asking institutions to limit speculative dlr
deals - Miyazawa



TAIWAN DOLLAR AND RESERVES SEEN RISING MORE SLOWLY

Recent government moves to curb capital inflow have temporarily helped to slow the rise of Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves and to stabilise the local dollar against the U.S. Currency, officials and bankers said. Central bank governor Chang Chi-Cheng told reporters the reserves rose only about 500 mln U.S. Dlrs in the past two weeks and the local dollar appreciated more slowly against the U.S. Dollar. Chang said, "The pace of increase in our reserves is much slower now than before and our currency is getting more stable." He said the reserves, mainly the result of the trade surplus with the U.S., Rose at the rate of two to three billion U.S. Dlrs a month between January and May. The reserves, the world's third largest after Japan and West Germany, now total well over 60 billion U.S. Dlrs. On June 2 the central bank froze overseas borrowings of local and foreign banks and cut the limit on central bank purchases of forward U.S. Dollars from banks to 40 pct from 90 pct of the value of a contract. Local and foreign bankers said the June 2 measures had drastically limited their ability to lend foreign exchange to importers and exporters. They said their overseas borrowings and forward dollar transactions showed a drastic decline with some banks registering a fall of up to 30 pct. Bank dealers said the Taiwan dollar has stabilised against the U.S. Currency this week after rising two to five Taiwanese cents a day between June 2 and 13 compared with a rise of five to eight cents in May. The bank dealers said the central bank, which had previously bought U.S. Dollars heavily, sold at least 1.1 billion U.S. Dlrs in the past two weeks to meet commercial demand. They said they expected the government to keep the local dollar stable in the near term to give breathing space to businesses experiencing slower exports because of the rise of more than 23 pct in the value of the Taiwan dollar since September 1985. The Taiwan dollar opened at 31.09 to the U.S. Dollar today, unchanged from yesterday. Keh Fei-Lo, vice president of First Commercial Bank, said, "It appears the central bank's move to curb the capital inflow is quite successful." Vice economic minister Wang Chien-Shien said the slower rise in foreign exchange reserves would help ease pressure from Washington over the large U.S. Trade deficit with Taiwan. Over the past year Taiwanese businessmen have delayed imports of machinery and production equipment because of exchange rate uncertainty, he said. The stable exchange rate would help boost imports, particularly from the United States. REUTER 
FED SETS SIX-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS



FED SETS SIX-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to arrange six-day repurchase agreements for system account, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed said. Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. Economists had expected three- or six-day repurchases because the Fed needs to add a large volume of reserves this statement period. Reuter 
VENEZUELA PROBES ALLEGED FOREIGN EXCHANGE FRAUD

Banking authorities and police are investigating an alleged fraud by the second largest trading house in the Caracas free foreign exchange market, Finance Minister Manuel Azpurua told reporters. The Superintendency of Banks and the Technical and Judicial Police have both begun probes of Cambio la Guiara, Azpurua said on Friday night. Police said the owners of the firm, Mario Muggia and his brother Luigi Muggia, have left Venezuela. Cambio la Guiara operated in part on the "parallel market" in which traders buy and sell dollars among themselves. The Venezuelan central bank on June 17 suspended the licences of all 21 foreign exchange operators in the parallel market, blaming their speculation for the constant rise in the value of the U.S. Dollar here. Juan Domingo Cordero, vice-president of the Caracas Stock Exchange and the owner of a foreign exchange trading house, said on Friday he had begun legal action against Cambio la Guiara for issuing him four checks without funds for a total amount of almost one mln dlrs. The Cambio la Guiara exchange house had operated in Venezuela for more than 20 years. REUTER 
 NORWAY CENTRAL BANK SELLS CROWNS TO EASE UPWARD PRESSURE
ON CURRENCY - DEALERS



NORWAY CENTRAL BANK SELLS CROWNS TO EASE PRESSURE

Norway's central bank sold crowns in the open market in a bid to ease strong upward pressure on the currency, which threatens to rise above set levels in a basket of currencies, dealers said. The central bank declined comment, but dealers noted the bank had also intervened and sold small amounts of crowns on Friday. The bank is committed to defending the crown at certain levels in a basket of 14 trade-weighted currencies. "They've been in again this morning, selling piecemeal whenever they think necessary," a senior dealer at an Oslo bank, who declined to be identified, told Reuters. The crown's index is currently around 109.60 in the basket -- close to its upper limit of 109.50 which the central bank is committed to defending. A low index figure indicates a high value for the crown. The limit at the other end of the scale is set at 114.50. The crown has been bolstered by high Norwegian interest rates, currently around 16 pct in the money market, and better than expected economic indicators which showed a sharply reduced foreign trade deficit in May and inflation stabilising around the current annual rate of 10 pct. REUTER 
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS



Miyazawa says Baker's remarks were aimed at just reaffirming Louvre agreement



NEW ZEALAND WILL CONTINUE FIRM MONETARY POLICY

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand said there was no evidence to suggest the fall in share prices had affected financial stability and it would maintain its firm monetary policy. Governor Spencer Russell said in a statement the central bank did not accept arguments that the battle against inflation should now take a low second priority after the sharemarket's plunge. Russell said the bank had two statutory responsibilities -- to implement the government's monetary policy to bring down inflation, and to ensure the financial sector's stability. "Unless the bank is directed otherwise, the firm monetary policy will continue because it is very much in the national interest that it do so," he said. "And there is yet no evidence available to the bank to suggest that the fall in share prices has affected the stability of the financial sector." The Barclays share index fell a record 504.75 points to 2,925,26 on Tuesday, a decline of 14.7 pct. REUTER 
Stoltenberg does not rule out central bank intervention to stabilize currencies



Further marked dollar fall would burden U.S. Trade deficit -Stoltenberg



Stoltenberg declines comment on possible changed targets for currencies



FED SAYS IT SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASE AGEEMENTS



 Poehl says chances for exchange rate stability are good



Miyazawa says G-7 still strongly supports Louvre Accord



Dollar opens sharply higher in Tokyo at 143.55 yen (Monday close 141.35)



TREASURY'S BAKER MET WEST GERMANY'S STOLTENBERG TODAY, AGREED TO SUPPORT LOUVRE PACT



German Finance Ministry confident of maintaining currency stability at around current levels - spokesman



German Finance Ministry confident of maintaining currency stability at around current levels - spokesman



BALLADUR URGES G-7 TO RESPECT LOUVRE ACCORD

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the Group of Seven (G-7) industrial countries should respect pledges on monetary policy made in the February Louvre accord on currency stability. "We have to strengthen the cooperation between the seven major industrial countries and remind ourselves of the pledges we made at the Louvre," he told journalists. "They were not simply pledges to maintain currency stability, but also to conduct a certain type of economic and monetary policy," he added. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS LOUVRE ACCORD ALIVE, BUT CITES U.S.-GERMAN DIFFERENCES



 Balladur urges G-7 to respect pledges on monetary policy in Louvre accord



FED'S JOHNSON SAYS LOWER DOLLAR WOULD EXACERBATE MARKET CONDITIONS



 Stoltenberg says he assumes monetary cooperation will continue



FED SEEN ADDING RESERVES VIA SYSTEM REPOS

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the government securities market to supply reserves to the banking system via system repurchase agreements, economists said. Most economists said the Fed would execute three-day system repurchases to meet a substantial need to add reserves in the current maintenance period, although some said a more aggressive add via overnight system repos was possible. Federal funds opened at 7-5/8 pct and remained at that level late this morning, compared with an average effective rate of 7.55 pct Friday. Reuter 
 Bank of France added money market liquidity at 7-3/4 pct - dealers



 Bundesbank buys 11.7 mln dlrs as dollar fixed lower at 1.7740 marks



PAPERS SAY VENEZUELAN CENTRAL BANK CHIEF TO RESIGN

Venezuelan Central Bank President Hernan Anzola has submitted his resignation and asked President Jaime Lusinchi to transfer him to a post in the oil industry, two leading Venezuelan newspapers reported. The El Universal and El Nacional papers said Anzola would leave his position soon. Lusinchi already has decided on his successor, the El Nacional reported. Central Bank officials were not available for comment. Banking sources said Anzola differed with the Finance Ministry over economic policy, particularly over the direction of interest rates. He favoured raising the rates, which are currently well below the annual inflation rate of 33.2 pct. But the sources said he ran into opposition from Finance Ministry and government officials who thought an interest increase would fuel inflation. REUTER 
 Bundesbank adds money market liquidity at 3.70-3.80 pct -dealers



VOLKSKAS BANK SEES RAND HINGING ON INFLATION RATE

South Africa must drive down its inflation rate to much lower levels to prevent a further decline in the rand, said Volkskas Bank in its monthly economic review. The bank said that without a major drop in the inflation rate, the rand was bound to eventually decrease even more, regardless of a sharp rise in the gold price. Inflation is running at an annual rate of some 17 pct and the rand is around 49.53 U.S. Cents. Most economists estimate continued high inflation. Volkskas predicted the rand will remain fairly steady for the rest of 1987 and then ease slightly next year. REUTER 
BANKS EXTEND TRADING HALT IN LEBANESE POUND

Lebanon's Bankers Association said it extended its suspension of trading in the Lebanese pound for two more working days to study ways to stem the currency's collapse. The Central Bank did not post the rate of the pound to the dollar and other currencies on Monday. The pound closed on Thursday at 407.00/412.00 to the dollar compared with Wednesday's close of 384.00/386.00. Association sources told Reuters Friday's suspension of trading for two working days was continued on Monday for two more days so as to study proposals to reinforce the pound. The Association, which comprises 106 commercial banks in east and west Beirut, halted trading on Friday in a chaotic market after the pound crashed to four record lows in the week. The pound, hit by the inability of Lebanon's religiously and ideologically divided government to end 12 years of civil war, has lost more than 80 pct of its international value this year. REUTER 
BALLADUR INSISTS ON MAINTENANCE OF LOUVRE ACCORDS

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur issued a firm call for the continued faithful application of the Louvre accords on currency stability by all major industrial countries. Balladur, responding to weekend remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the U.S. Would take another look at the accords, said "I firmly desire a faithfull and firm adherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvre accords -- in both their letter and spirit." On Sunday, Baker said last week's rise in short-term West German interest rates was not in keeping with the accords. The Louvre accords, agreed in Paris last February, called for stability among the major currencies after a prolonged dollar slide. The accords were reaffirmed by the Group of Seven Finance Ministers in Washington last month. But Baker said at the weekend that the West German rate rise was "not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to." "What I'm really saying is that they should not expect us to simply sit back here and accept increased tightening on their part on the assumption that somehow we are going to follow them," he added. REUTER 
ECONOMIST URGES MORE TAXES TO LOWER N.Z. DOLLAR

An income tax surcharge and capital gains tax could bring about an urgently needed depreciation of the N.Z. Dollar, independent economist Len Bayliss said. Bayliss, a former economist with the Reserve Bank and the Bank of New Zealand, said a major depreciation is needed to restore export competitiveness even if inflation is cut by current government policies. The taxes would help cut the budget deficit, which in turn would lower the value of the N.Z. Dollar, he said in a speech. He added that the deficit for the year ending March 1988 could be much higher than the government's 1.3 billion dlr forecast. Since the government was unlikely to cut expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product, a major tax increase was probably unavoidable, Bayliss said. He would have preferred an increase in the 10 pct value-added goods and services tax, introduced in October 1986, but that would have had a short-term inflationary impact. Import tariffs should be lowered to minimise the inflationary impact of a currency depreciation. The government had failed to bring inflation down despite lower oil prices and an appreciation in the currency, he added. New Zealand's inflation rate was 16.9 pct in the year to end-September against 18.9 pct in the year to end June. The major deficiency in the government's anti-inflation policies was reliance on high interest and exchange rates and insufficient emphasis on reducing the budget deficit, Bayliss said. The government had also failed to reduce overseas debt and debt ratios and cut the balance of payments deficit. "The widespread belief that (New Zealand's) problems are going to take much longer to solve than was originally thought is soundly based -- primarily because the government's macro-economic policies have been unsuccessful," Bayliss said. REUTER 
