ICO PRODUCERS TO PRESENT NEW COFFEE PROPOSAL

International Coffee Organization, ICO, producing countries will present a proposal for reintroducing export quotas for 12 months from April 1 with a firm undertaking to try to negotiate up to September 30 any future quota distribution on a new basis, ICO delegates said. Distribution from April 1 would be on an unchanged basis as in an earlier producer proposal, which includes shortfall redistributions totalling 1.22 mln bags, they said. Resumption of an ICO contact group meeting with consumers, scheduled for this evening, has been postponed until tomorrow, delegates said. Reuter 
ICO EXPORTERS TO MODIFY NEW PROPOSAL

International Coffee Organization (ICO) exporters will modify their new proposal on quota resumption before presenting it to importers tomorrow, ICO delegates said. The change, which will be discussed tonight informally among producers, follows talks after the formal producer session with the eight-member producer splinter group and will affect the proposed quota distribution for 12 months from April one, they said. The proposed share-out would still include shortfall declarations, they said. Reuter 
BRITAIN'S ALLIANCE OPPOSITION WINS BY-ELECTION

Britain's centrist Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance won a surprise victory in a parliamentary by-election in the London borough of Greenwich, a seat held by the main opposition Labour party for the past 50 years. Rosie Barnes, a Social Democratic member of the Alliance, won with 18,287 votes, or 53 pct, and a majority of 6,611 seats over her nearest rival, Labour candidate Deirdre Wood. The Conservatives came third with 3,852 votes. The result is expected to play a key role in determining when Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, leader of the ruling Conservatives, might call a general election. REUTER 
PRODUCER SPLIT HEATS UP COFFEE QUOTA TALKS

Talks on the possibility of reintroducing global coffee export quotas have been extended into today, with sparks flying yesterday when a dissident group of exporters was not included in a key negotiating forum. The special meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) council was called to find a way to stop a prolonged slide in coffee prices. However, delegates said no solution to the question of how to implement quotas was yet in sight. World coffee export quotas -- the major device used to regulate coffee prices under the International Coffee Agreement -- were suspended a year ago when prices soared in reaction to a drought which cut Brazil"s output by nearly two thirds. Brazil is the world"s largest coffee producer and exporter. Producers and consumers now are facing off over the question of how quotas should be calculated under any future quota distribution scheme, delegates said. Tempers flared late Saturday when a minority group of eight producing countries was not represented in a contact group of five producer and five consumer delegates plus alternates which was set up to facilitate debate. The big producers "want to have the ball only in their court and it isn"t fair," minority producer spokesman Luis Escalante of Costa Rica said. The majority producer group has proposed resuming quotas April 1, using the previous ad hoc method of carving up quota shares, with a promise to try to negotiate basic quotas before September 30, delegates said. Their plan would perpetuate the status quo, allowing Brazil to retain almost all of its current 30 pct share of the export market, Colombia 17 pct, Ivory Coast seven pct and Indonesia six pct, with the rest divided among smaller exporters. But consuming countries and the dissident producer group have tabled separate proposals requiring quotas be determined by availability, using a formula incorporating exportable production and stocks statistics. Their proposals would give Brazil a smaller quota share and Colombia and Indonesia a larger share, and bring a new quota distribution scheme into effect now rather than later. Brazil has so far been unwilling to accept any proposal that would reduce its quota share, delegates said. Delegates would not speculate on prospects for agreement on a quota package. "Anything is possible at this phase," even adjournment of the meeting until March or April, one said. If the ICO does agree on quotas, the price of coffee on the supermarket shelf is not likely to change sinnificantly as a result, industry sources said. Retail coffee prices over the past year have remained about steady even though coffee market prices have tumbled, so an upswing probably will not be passed onto the consumer either, they said. REUTER 
BRITISH CONSERVATIVES AHEAD OF LABOUR IN NEW POLLS

Britain"s ruling Conservatives have enlarged their lead over the opposition Labour Party, according to results of two opinion polls released on Saturday. A Market & Opinion Research International (MORI) poll conducted for The Sunday Times showed the Conservatives with a six point lead, while a poll by Telephone Surveys Limited for The Sunday Express found them to be four points ahead. The Sunday Express poll is the first conducted since the Social Democratic Party scored an upset victory on Thursday in a parliamentary by-election in the former Labour stronghold of Greenwich, near London. The MORI poll, conducted in the six days leading up to the by-election, showed the Conservatives with 41 pct of the vote, Labour with 35 pct and the Alliance of Social Democrats and Liberals with 21 pct. The Sunday Express said its poll, conducted on Friday, found the Conservatives ahead with 35.6 pct of the vote, Labour with 31.9 pct and the Alliance with 31.4 pct. A Harris poll published in The Observer newspaper last Sunday gave the Conservatives only a two-point lead over Labour. In that survey, the Conservatives had the support of 39 pct of the voters, Labour 37 pct and the Alliance 23 pct. REUTER 
IRAN CLAIMS NEW VICTORIES NEAR BASRA

Iran said its forces had captured one of Iraq's strongest fortifications east of Basra on the Gulf War southern front in a major battle overnight. The Iranian National News Agency, received here, said Iranian forces smashed four Iraqi brigades, killed or wounded 1,500 Iraqi soldiers and destroyed 45 enemy tanks and personnel carriers. IRNA said the Iranian troops seized one of the strongest Iraqi fortifications and breached Iraqi defence lines southwest of Fish Lake, 10 kilometres (six miles) east of Iraq's second largest city of Basra. REUTER 
COFFEE QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE, NO ACCORD SEEN LIKELY

The International Coffee Organization (ICO ) council talks on reintroducing export quotas continued with an extended session lasting late into Sunday night, but delegates said prospects for an accord between producers and consumers were diminishing by the minute. The special meeting, called to stop the prolonged slide in coffee prices, was likely to adjourn sometime tonight without agreement, delegates said. The council is expected to agree to reconvene either within the next six weeks or in September, they said. The talks foundered on Sunday afternoon when it became apparent consumers and producers could not compromise on the formula for calculating any future quota system, delegates said. Coffee export quotas were suspended a year ago when prices soared in response to a drought which cut Brazil's crop by nearly two-thirds. Brazil is the world's largest coffee producer and exporter. REUTER 
QANTAS TO BUY FOUR 747-400'S FOR ONE BILLION DLRS

<Qantas Airways Ltd> has placed a firm order with Boeing Co <BA> for four 747-400 aircraft at a cost of 250 mln Australian dlrs each, chairman Jim Leslie said. The first is due for delivery in April 1989 with the others arriving in May, June and September of that year, he said in a statement. The 400 series is the latest model of the Boeing 747 family, he said. The purchase will take government-owned Qantas's 747 fleet to 28, he said. Leslie said Qantas is talking to three engine makers who are all offering engines for the Boeing 747-400 and it will announce a decision on engine purchases later this year. He said they are United Technologies Corp <UTX> unit <Pratt^M and Whitney>, General Electric Co <GE> and Britain's <Rolls-Royce^M Ltd>. He said the 747-400, which incorporates new technology such as extended wings with six-feet high winglets and enhanced electronics, should have its first flight next February. The 400 series has a designed range of 12,500 kms, 2,140 kms further than the current Qantas 747-300's, he said. The aircraft will be financed by foreign borrowings and foreign exchange earnings, and Qantas believes they will pay for themselves in four to five years, Leslie said. The 747-400 has a take-off weight of 870,000 pounds, up from 833,000 for the 300 series, and offers an eight pct fuel saving, he said. The higher range and payload means they will first be used on the route to Britain and Europe via Asia. They will also be used on non-stop flights between Sydney and Los Angeles. REUTER 
ICO TALKS ON COFFEE QUOTAS TO RESUME AT NOON

Talks on coffee export quotas at the International Coffee Organization (ICO) special council session will resume at noon gmt today, following a last minute decision taken early this morning to extend the meeting 24 hours, ICO officials said. An 18 member contact group will meet at midday to examine new ideas, and the full council is to convene at 1900gmt, they said. The extension resulted from a last ditch effort by Colombia to salvage the talks, which by late yesterday looked perilously close to ending without agreement on quotas, delegates said. REUTER 
CAECL ISSUES 12 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Caisse d'Aide a l'Equipement des Collectives Locales (CAECL) is issuing a 12 billion yen eurobond due March 31, 1994 paying 5-1/8 pct and priced at 102 pct, lead manager Mitsubishi Trust International Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is March 31. REUTER 
INTERNATIONAL LEISURE NEGOIATING ON BOEING LEASE

<International Leisure Group Plc> said its <Air Europe> subsidiary was in advanced negotiations with manufacturers and banks for the lease of 10 <Boeing Co> and 13 <Rolls-Royce Ltd> engines. The deal would be for the lease, with purchase options, of five Boeing 757-200 planes and five 737-400s. The Rolls-Royce RB211-535E4 engines would be fitted to the Boeing 757s. Delivery would be in 1988 and 1989. REUTER 
MERRILL LYNCH ISSUES 100 MLN ECU EUROBOND

Merrill Lynch and Co is issuing a 100 mln Ecu eurobond due March 30, 1990, paying 7-3/8 pct and priced at 101 pct, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets is co-lead manager. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,00 Ecus and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is March 30, 1990. The selling concession is 1-3/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 1.61 billion stg. Partly offsetting this outflow, exchequer transactions and a fall in note circulation will add around 425 mln stg and 360 mln stg respectively. In addition, bankers' balances above target will add some 20 mln stg to the system today. REUTER 
INDIA BUYS 46,000 TONNES OF VEGETABLE OILS

The Indian State Trading Corporation purchased 46,000 tonnes of vegetable oils at its import tender on Friday, market sources said. The business was for April shipments and comprised 20,000 tonnes of European rapeseed oil at 318 dlrs, 20,000 tonnes of soyoil, believed South American origin, at 314, and 6,000 tonnes of Malaysian rbd palm olein at 347 dlrs, all per tonne cif. Palm oil sellers were disappointed at the light purchase of rbd olein and early trading saw the market ease nearly 10 dlrs under Malaysian refiner and dealer selling. April shipments traded down to 326 dlrs per tonne, fob. REUTER 
BEECHAM UNIT LAUNCHES ARTHRITIS DRUG

Beecham Group Plc <BHAM.L> said its subsidiary <Beecham Pharmaceuticals> launched a new once-a-day, prescription only medicine for the reduction of pain and inflammation caused by rheumatoid and osteoarthritis. The launch took place simultaneously in the U.K. And West Germany. The drug, which has the approved name Nabumetone, will be introduced to doctors in the U.K. Under the brand name of Relifex and will be known as Arthaxan in West Germany. REUTER 
TESCO ISSUES 100 MLN STG CONVERTIBLE BOND

Tesco Plc <TSCO.L> is issuing a 100 mln stg convertible eurobond due February 20, 2002 paying an indicated coupon of four to 4-1/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The issue is callable after 90 days at 106 pct declining by one pct per annum to par thereafter. It is not callable until 1992 unless the share price exceeds 130 pct of the conversion price. Final terms will be set on, or before, March 9. The deal has an investor put option after five years, which will be priced to give the investor an annual yield to the put of 8-3/4 to nine pct. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The payment date is March 25 and there will be a short first coupon period. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 stg and will be listed in London. REUTER 
FIAT UNIT ISSUES 100 MLN DLR BOND AND WARRANTS

Fiat Finance and Trade Ltd is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due April 2, 1991 at 7-1/4 pct and 101-1/8 pct, lead manager Morgan Stanley International said. The issue is guaranteed by Internazionale Fiat Holding SA and is accompanied by a 200,000 currency warrant package. The bond is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date for bond and warrants is April 2, 1987. The selling concession is 1-1/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The warrants indicated at 45 dlrs entitle the holder to buy a minimum of 500 dlrs at a rate of 1.79 marks per dlr. The warrants are exercisable from the April 2 payment date until March 2, 1989. A minimum of 200 warrants must be exercised. They will also be listed in Luxembourg. REUTER 
U.K. CONFIRMS JANUARY STERLING M3 RISE

The Bank of England said the broad measure of U.K. Money supply, Sterling M3, rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1 pct in January after a 0.2 pct rise in December. The unadjusted year-on-year rise was 17.6 pct after 18.1 pct in the year to December. The narrow measure of money supply, M0, fell by a seasonally adjusted 0.6 pct in January, and rose by a non-adjusted 4.1 pct year-on-year, the Bank said. The figures confirm provisional data issued by the Bank two weks ago. In December, M0 grew by a seasonally adjusted 1.4 pct and by a non-seasonally adjusted 5.2 pct year-on-year. The Bank said sterling bank lending grew by a non-seasonally adjusted 1.75 billion stg in January. This also confirmed provisional figures issued in February. The measure of private sector liquidity, PSL2, fell 0.2 pct in January, but after seasonal adjustment rose 0.6 pct, the Bank said. The Bank said the public sector contribution to the growth in Sterling M3 was contractionary by about 2.3 billion stg. Within this, the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) showed a repayment of 3.7 billion stg, while the non-bank private sector's holdings of government debt fell by about 1.1 billion stg. There was a fall of 290 mln stg in notes and coin in January, a fall of 1.5 billion stg in non-interest bearing sight deposits, and a rise of 1.6 billion stg in interest bearing sight deposits, the Bank said. REUTER 
PAKISTAN TO TENDER FOR RBD PALM OIL

Pakistan will hold an import tender tomorrow for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half March shipments, traders said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN

The Bank of England said it revised its forecast of the shortage in the money market down to around 700 mln stg from its original estimate of 800 mln. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 37 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 37 mln stg assistance in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's downward revised estimate of the shortfall in the system today of around 700 mln stg. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising four mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 33 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER 
INDIA TO HOLD WHITE SUGAR BUYING TENDER

India will hold a buying tender on Wednesday, March 4, for two to three cargoes of white sugar for March/April shipment, traders said. REUTER 
COFFEE QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE BUT NO AGREEMENT YET

Coffee quota talks at the International Coffee Organization council meeting here continued this afternoon, but producers and consumers still had not reached common ground on the key issue of how to estimate export quotas, delegates said. The 54 member contact group was examining a Colombian proposal to resume quotas April 1 under the ad hoc system used historically, with a pledge to meet again in September to discuss how quotas would be worked out in the future, they said. Delegates would not speculate on the prospects for agreement at this time. "Anything could happen," one delegate said. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED BORROWING FACILTIES

The Bank of England said it had offered borrowing facilities to those discount houses wishing to use them at 1430 GMT. The Bank also said it provided the money market 456 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session bringing its total help so far today to 493 mln stg. This compares with its forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 700 mln stg. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 41 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct 361 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct and 54 mln stg in band three at 10-3/4 pct. Money market dealers said the Bank of England has recently used the offer of borrowing facilities to signal that it does not want to see an early reduction in U.K. Base lending rates. The Bank does this by lending to the discount houses at rates of interest higher than its prevailing money market dealing rates. REUTER 
QUEBEC'S CAISSE DES JARDINS ISSUES YEN EUROBOND

Caisse Centrale Desjardins du Quebec is issuing a 10 billion yen step-up eurobond maturing on March 25, 1992 and priced at 101-3/4 pct, joint-bookrunner Warburg Securities said. The issues pays a coupon of one pct in years one and two and then pays a coupon of 7-7/8 pct in years three, four and five. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is March 25 while the issue will be listed in Luxembourg. The borrower is the wholesale financing arm of a major group of credit unions in the Province of Quebec. REUTER 
QUEBEC'S CAISSE DES JARDINS ISSUES YEN EUROBOND

Caisse Centrale Desjardins du Quebec is issuing a 10 billion yen step-up eurobond maturing on March 25, 1992 and priced at 101-3/4 pct, joint-bookrunner Warburg Securities said. The issues pays a coupon of one pct in years one and two and then pays a coupon of 7-7/8 pct in years three, four and five. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is March 25 while the issue will be listed in Luxembourg. The borrower is the wholesale financing arm of a major group of credit unions in the Province of Quebec. Reuter 
COMMERZBANK UNIT ISSUES STERLING EUROBOND

Commerzbank Overseas Finance NV is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due March 31, 1992 paying 9-5/8 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, joint-lead manager Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said. Commerzbank AG is the other joint-lead. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in London. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is March 31. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND ANNOUNCES ONE BILLION STG TAP

The Bank of Enlgand said it was creating and taking onto its own books a one stg tranche of the nine pct Exchequer stock due 2002. The issue is part paid with 20 stg pct payable on issue and the 76 stg pct balance due on April 27. First dealings will take place this Wednesday, March 4. The initial reaction among dealers was to mark prices around 1/8 point easier. The market had been untapped prior to this announcement. REUTER 
REUTER DEALING SERVICE INTRODUCED IN CHINA

Reuters Holdings Plc <RTRS.L> said it had its first subscriber installation in China of its foreign exchange dealing service. The subscriber is the banking department of the China International Trust and Investment Corp's (CITIC) head office in Beijing. The service is also due to be connected soon at the Bank of China's new headquarters in Beijing, Reuters said. REUTER 
COUPON REDUCED ON BEST DENKI WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 70 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond for Best Denki Co Ltd has been set at three pct compared with the indicated 3-1/8 pct, lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said. The exercise price was set 1,640 yen per share, representing a premium of 2-1/2 pct over today's closing price of 1,600 yen. The foreign exchange rate was set at 154.40 yen to the U.S. Dollar. The five-year deal is priced at par. REUTER 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS POSTPONED

Talks due today between management and unions to try to end the strike at Cargill U.K. Ltd's Seaforth oilseed crushing plant have been rescheduled for Thursday, a company spokesman said. Oilseed processing at the plant has been halted since December 19 when mill workers walked out in protest at new contract manning levels. Reuter 
SONY TO EXPAND U.K. TELEVISION OUTPUT

Sony (U.K.) Ltd said it would be doubling capacity at its Bridgend, Wales, television and components factory over the next three years in a 30 mln stg expansion. The expansion, backed by Welsh office grants, would make Bridgend Sony's biggest tv manufacturing plant in Europe with output of about 500,000 tv sets per year, a spokesman said. The move will add 300 jobs at Bridgend, bringing the total workforce to 1,500 at the end of the three-year period. The expansion is part of a wider move by Sony Corp <SNE.T> to locate more production capacity nearer its markets, a spokesman said. Reuter 
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE TO CLOSE TRADING FLOOR

The London Stock Exchange said its ruling council has decided to close the trading floor for government bonds (gilts) and equities in due course because most of the business is now done between brokers' offices. A trading floor for traded options will be retained. Dwindling activity on the exchange floor reflects the introduction of the new dealing system, known as SEAQ, which was part of the Big Bang restructuring of the market last October. Since then, brokers and market-makers have been dealing on the basis of competing share quotes displayed on screens. REUTER 
ICO QUOTA TALKS CONTINUE, OUTCOME HARD TO GAUGE

Talks at the extended special meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) on the reintroduction of export quotas continued, but chances of success were still almost impossible to gauge, delegates said. Producer delegates were meeting to examine a Colombian proposal to resume historical quotas from April 1 to September, with a promise to define specific new criteria by which a new quota system would be calculated in September for the new crop year, they said. Opinions among delegates over the potential for reaching a quota agreement varied widely. Some consumers said the mood of the meeting seemed slightly more optimistic. But Brazil's unwillingness to concede any of its traditional 30.55 pct of its export market share looks likely to preclude any accord, other delegates said. No fresh proposals other than the Colombian initiative had been tabled formally today, delegates said. A full council meeting was set for 1900 hours for a progress report, delegates said. Reuter 
CUBA TELLS TRADERS SUGAR EXPORTS MAY BE DELAYED

Cuba has told international sugar operators who have bought its sugar for shipment in March that these contracts will take second place to Cuba's direct shipments to its export markets, dealers here said. Some traders who have received telexes from Cuba said the language of the message was not totally clear and some believed shipments would be honoured if the traders declare the Soviet Union as the destination of their contracts. The telexes have fueled rising world prices in the last week and reflect a poor Cuban crop, worry over Brazil's export availability, and increasing Soviet demand, analysts said. Traders said signs of Cuba's shortage of immediately available raw sugar to supply its traditional martkets was probably the factor behind Syria calling a snap buying tender last month. Normally Syria calls white sugar buying tenders for forward delivery, and last month's spot requirement resulted in the sale of several cargoes. Cuba in its telex told operators they would not receive March shipments as Cuba has to meet its contracts to export markets, traders said. Reuter 
CURRENCIES COULD INFLUENCE BULLION AGAIN-MONTAGU

Currency fluctuations may reassert their influence on the bullion market in the near future, bullion bankers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said in a market report. But the firm said silver may lag behind gold in any reactions to movements on foreign exchanges. "OPEC's failure to address the recent decline in oil prices remains a worrying factor however, and on balance it appears that the market should be approached cautiously," Montagu said. The bank said the US economy has shown no noticeable long-term improvement and that both Latin American debt and the Iranian arms affair could undermine confidence in the dollar. Reuter 
FUNARO REJECTS UK SUGGESTION OF IMF BRAZIL PLAN

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro flatly rejected a U.K. Suggestion that his country seek International Monetary Fund help in order to facilitate debt negotiations with commercial creditor banks. Talking to reporters, Funaro said this attitude would not help resolve the crisis started when Brazil suspended indefenitely interest payments on 68 billion dlrs in external debt on February 20. Funaro was in Britain on the first leg of a tour of European capitals to explain the motives of the Brazilian debt moratorium and to seek support for intiatives to improve capital flows between developed countries and third world debtor nations. Talking before his departure for Paris, he said there could be no question of Brazil adopting another IMF austerity plan after a similar package four years ago "put Brazil in a very big recession." "We had an IMF program - it simply meant export more and import less. We are not going to go the IMF," he said. Funaro was reactnng to a British statement following his talks with Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, saying the U.K. Government had no part to play in what it viewed as a problem between Brazil and its commercial creditor banks. Britain also believed an IMF program would help along negotiations between Brazil and the commercial banks, the statement, which banking sources interpreted as an outright rebuttal of all Brazilian demands, said. "That was not my impression of the meeting," Funaro said; "But if the (British) answer is more or less like this, then that means nothing is helping to find a solution." Funaro stressed that his talks in Washington last week and in Europe this week were aimed at gaining official support to unblock lending from official credit agencies, rather than to deal with Brazils ties with commercial banks. "Since 1982, all official agencies have been closed to my country," he said. He said Lawson had made no commitments to support Brazil's efforts. Lawson would officially state his position when the two meet again next month for the IMF and World Bank spring meetings in Washington, Funaro said. Stressing there was no binding time schedule for Brazil's debt problem to be resolved, Funaro said Brazil had not come to Europe with specific proposals to overcome the present crisis. "We didn't come here to make a cash-flow programme," he said, "We will have meetings at the IMF next month - let's see what happens." Neither did Brazil plan a major overhaul of current domestic economic policies, which Funaro said would likely lead to a five pct economic growth this year. "Over the past five years we paid back 45 billion dlrs and received 11 billion ... This is a very big effort," he said. "What we have to offer is our cooperation." Reuter 
SENIOR DELEGATES PESSIMISTIC ON ICO TALKS

Efforts to break an impasse between coffee exporting and importing countries over regulating the world coffee market in the face of falling prices appear to have failed, senior delegates said after a contact group meeting. The full ICO council is due to meet this evening. President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC) Jorio Dauster told Reuters after the contact group meeting there had been no agreement on quotas as consumers had tried to dictate market shares rather than negotiate them. Dauster said there are no plans yet to renew negotiations at a later date. Reuter 
FUNARO REJECTS SUGGESTION OF IMF BRAZIL PLAN

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro flatly rejected a U.K. Suggestion that his country seek International Monetary Fund (IMF) help in order to facilitate debt negotiations with commercial creditor banks. Talking to reporters, Funaro said this attitude would not help resolve the crisis started when Brazil suspended indefinitely interest payments on 68 billion dlrs in external debt on February 20. Funaro was in Britain on the first leg of a tour of European capitals to explain the motives of the Brazilian debt moratorium and to seek support for intiatives to improve capital flows between developed countries and third world debtor nations. Reuter 
ICO COUNCIL ENDS IN FAILURE TO AGREE QUOTAS

A special meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) council failed to agree on how to set coffee export quotas, ICO delegates said. Producers and consumers could not find common ground on the issue of quota distribution in eight days of arduous, often heated talks, delegates said. Export quotas -- the major device of the International Coffee Agreement to stabilise prices -- were suspended a year ago after coffee prices soared in reaction to a drought in Brazil which cut its output by two thirds. Delegates and industry representatives predicted coffee prices could plummet more than 100 stg a tonne to new four year lows tomorrow in response to the results of the meeting. Reuter 
FISONS SEES STRONG INTERNATIONAL GROWTH IN 1986

Fisons Plc <FISN.L> said strong international growth had been the main feature of the group's 1986 progress, with the pharmaceutical division reporting a 50 pct increase in U.S. Sales during the period. The rise was due to a sustained marketing programme, a larger sales force and the introduction of an aerosol form of its Intal anti-asthma drug, which pushed U.S. Sales up 70 pct. The company was commenting on 1986 results which saw pre-tax profits rising to 85.1 mln stg from 72.3 mln in 1985. The result was in line with market forecasts, but its shares nevertheless eased in a falling market to 634p at 0857 GMT from 643p. Fisons said the potential for future growth of Intral, as well as its Opticrom and Nasalcrom products, was clearly indicated by a strong 1986 performance. The scientific equipment business had raised the proportion of high technology products it manufactures and also raised its ability to generate higher margins. The horticulture operations had demonstrated outstanding marketing ability. Underlying cash flow from all three operations had been positive despite a full programme of capital investment. Action to protect the group against foreign currency movements resulted in a small net gain to profits. REUTER 
NEDERLANDSE GASUNIE ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

NV Nederlandse Gasunie is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due April 15, 1992 paying 7-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/8 pct, lead manager Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct, while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is April 15. REUTER 
SAAB-SCANIA ISSUES 150 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Saab-Scania AB is issuing a 150 mln dlr eurobond due April 2, 1992 paying 7-3/4 pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Morgan Guaranty Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of 5,000 and 50,000 dlrs and will be listed in London. Payment date is April 2, 1992. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined, and listing will be in London. REUTER 
MERRILL MANDATED FOR IEL U.S. NOTE.

Merrill Lynch Capital Markets said it received a mandate from Industrial Equity Ltd (IEL) of Australia to arrange a letter of credit facility in support of 100 mln dlrs of medium term notes and U.S. Commercial paper to be sold in the U.S. Domestic market. Merrill, which will be the dealer for the medium term notes and commercial paper, said this was the first facility of its kind. Sumitomo Trust and Banking Co Ltd has agreed to provide the letter of credit. The letter of credit has a five year term, with an evergreen feature allowing for extension at the support banks' option. The notes and paper will be issued by IEL's Sydney-based subsidiary, IEL Finance Ltd. The letter of credit will be underwritten by a group of banks who will be paid a 20 basis point facility fee and a 25 basis point utilisation fee. IEL itself is 51 pct owned by Brierley Investments Ltd of New Zealand, Merrill Lynch said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 350 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 350 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 525 mln stg while bankers' balnces below target will take out around 175 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions and a fall in note circulation will add some 300 mln stg and 40 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 
CURRENCY SECTORS CONTINUE TO FEATURE EUROBOND TRADE

Early dollar straight eurobond trade was quiet with currency sectors, particularly eurosterling, continuing to perform strongly, closely reflecting current trading patterns on the foreign exchanges, dealers said. Eurosterling bonds continued to rise steadily, bolstered by the extremely ebullient tone of the U.K. Government bond market on a combination of positive U.K. Economic fundamentals. The dollar was initially stabler but most dollar straight bonds were static in dull trade. A handful of issues showed signs of weakness but dealers said investors were awaiting today's release of U.S. Leading indicators for January. The U.S. Data due out this afternoon is expected to be weak, placing the U.S. Unit under renewed pressure and robbing the market in dollar-denominated eurobonds of fresh trading impetus, one dollar straight trader said. "It's going to be another tedious day and I can't see how anybody is going to make any money," he said. Eurosterling issues continued to rally on the back of general sterling euphoria -- with the U.K. Currency trading at six month highs on interest rate optimism and the strength of the domestic equity markets. Eurosterling bonds saw early gains of up to half a point. However, some eurosterling dealers noted the bonds could soon fall back marginally if -- as expected -- professionals stepped in to take profits at current healthy levels. Trade in mark-denominated bonds was expected to be subdued today due to pre-Lenten carnival festivities in West Germany. There were signs of reawakened investor nerves affecting trade in the floating rate note market which yesterday started the week extremely quietly after a hectic sell-off last week. FRN dealers said paper of U.S. -- and also of Canadian -- banks was seeing some pressure as a result of recent press reports focussing on their exposure to Latin American debt. "(Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson) Funaro's visit to Europe has also brought the spotlight back onto the debt crisis after things had more or less quietened down following the first shock statements last week," one FRN specialist said. Despite the dearth of activity in the dollar straight secondary market, two new dollar issues were the only early features on the primary market. These were a five year 150 mln dlr deal launched by Morgan Guaranty Ltd for Saab Scania at 7-3/4 pct priced at 101-3/4 pct. The other issue was a 100 mln dlr deal -- also due 1992 -- for NV Nederlandse Gasunie paying 7-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/8 pct, with Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd as lead manager. Dealers predicted reasonable demand for both issues due mainly to a lack of fresh, good name paper in the market. REUTER 
SUPPLIES OF U.K. INDEX-LINKED BOND EXHAUSTED

The Government broker's supplies of a 400 mln stg issue of two pct Treasury index-linked stock due 1992 were exhausted in early trading on the U.K. Government bond market this morning, the Bank of England said. The Bank said that the issue was no longer operating as a tap, having been supplied at a price of 94 stg pct this morning. The issue was undersubscribed at a tender on February 18, but the Government broker has supplied amounts of the stock on a number of occasions since then. The relatively small quantity remaining in the authorities' hands was quickly sold out on a small upturn in demand early today. REUTER 
MONTEDISON UNIT ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Montedison Finance Overseas Ltd, a unit of Montedison SpA, is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 3, 1990 paying 15-1/2 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Orion Royal Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by the parent. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The issue will be listed in Luxembourg and is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs. The payment date is April 3. REUTER 
U.K. RESERVES SHOW UNDERLYING RISE IN FEBRUARY

Britain's gold and currency reserves showed an underlying rise of 287 mln dlrs in February, after a 72 mln dlrs rise in January, the Treasury said. The underlying trend, which is a guide to Bank of England operations to support the pound on foreign exchanges, is net of borrowings and repayments. This was above market expectations for a 100 mln dlrs rise. The Treasury said the Bank of England used the opportunity of strong demand to rebuild reserves after losses last autumn and said the underlying rise was still relatively modest. Actual reserves rose by 305 mln dlrs in February to 22.26 billion dlrs, after rising 29 mln in January to 21.95 billion. Accruals of borrowings under the exchange cover scheme were 36 mln dlrs last month, after 163 mln in January, while repayments were 16 mln dlrs after the previous 151 mln, a Treasury spokesman said. Capital repayments totalled two mln dlrs. In January, capital repayments totalled 14 mln dlrs, with a valuation change that resulted in a fall of 41 mln dlrs due to the quarterly rollover from the European Monetary Cooperation Fund swap. The Treasury would not comment on the Bank of England's market operations, but currency traders reported moderate Bank of England intervention to curb upward pressure on the pound today. A Treasury spokesman, commenting on the reserves figures, said that the government does not want sterling either to rise too far or to fall substantially from current levels. He noted that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson stressed this after the recent Paris currencies meeting. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP

The Bank of England said it revised up its forecast of the shortage in the money market today to around 500 mln stg from its initial estimate of 350 mln. REUTER 
PAKISTAN TO RETENDER FOR RBD PALM OIL TOMORROW

Pakistan will retender for 6,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for second half March shipment tomorrow, after failing to take up offers today, palm oil traders said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 24 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided 24 mln stg help to the money market in the morning session. This compares with the bank's upward revised shortage forecast of around 500 mln stg. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising two mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 22 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER 
COUPON ON MITSUBISHI WARRANT BOND CUT

The coupon on the 300 mln dlr equity warrant bond deal for Mitsubishi Estate Co Ltd has been cut to three pct from the 3-1/4 pct initially indicated, Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said as lead manager of the deal. Exercise price for the warrants has been fixed at yen 2,817 representing a 2.53 pct premium over the latest Tokyo close adjusted for a free share issue this month. Foreign exchange fix is yen 154.65/dlr and payment date on the deal is March 20. REUTER 
CASSA DI RISPARMIO DI ROMA LAUNCHING CD PROGRAM

Italian savings bank Cassa di Risparmio di Roma is launching a 100 mln dlr euro-certificate of deposit issuance program, Chase Investment Bank Ltd said as arranger. Chase will also be a dealer for the program, along with Swiss Bank Corporation International Ltd. Chase Manhattan Bank NA, London Branch, will be issuing and paying agent. The paper will be issued in denominations of 500,000 and one mln dlrs. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN

The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the shortage in the money market down to 450 mln stg before taking account of its morning operations. At noon the bank had estimated the shortfall at 500 mln stg. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 437 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 437 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This brings the Bank's total help so far today to 461 mln stg and compares with its revised shortage forecast of 450 mln stg. The central bank made purchases of bank bills outright comprising 120 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 315 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct. In addition, it also bought two mln stg of treasury bills in band two at 10-13/16 pct. REUTER 
SAAB-SCANIA ISSUES 150 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Saab-Scania AB is issuing a 150 mln dlr eurobond due April 2, 1992 paying 7-3/4 pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Morgan Guaranty Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of 5,000 and 50,000 dlrs and will be listed in London. Payment date is April 2, 1992. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined, and listing will be in London. REUTER 
MONY FUNDING ISSUES 125 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Mony Funding Inc is issuing a 125 mln dlr eurobond due April 7, 1997 paying 8-1/8 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, sole lead manager Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by Mutual Life Insurance Co of the U.S. And is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-3/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is April 7. REUTER 
SMALL QUANTITY OF UK WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET

A total of 2,435 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat were sold at today's tender for the home market out of requests for 3,435 tonnes, the Home Grown Cereals Authority, HGCA, said. Price details were not reported. No bids were submitted for intervention barley. Reuter 
U.K. WHEAT AND BARLEY EXPORTS ADJUSTED UPWARDS

The U.K. Exported 535,460 tonnes of wheat and 336,750 tonnes of barley in January, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA) said, quoting adjusted Customs and Excise figures. Based on the previous January figures issued on February 9, wheat exports increased by nearly 64,000 tonnes and barley by about 7,000 tonnes. The new figures bring cumulative wheat exports for the period July 1/February 13 to 2.99 mln tonnes, and barley to 2.96 mln compared with 1.25 and 1.89 mln tonnes respectively a year ago. January wheat exports comprised 251,000 tonnes to European Community destinations and 284,000 tonnes to third countries. The Soviet Union was prominent in third country destinations, taking 167,700 tonnes while Poland was credited with 54,500 and South Korea 50,000 tonnes. Italy was the largest EC recipient with 75,000 tonnes followed by West Germany with 55,200 and France 52,000 tonnes. Barley exports for January comprised 103,700 tonnes to the EC and 233,000 to third countries. The Soviet Union was the largest single importer with 133,265 tonnes followed by Saudi Arabia with 53,800 tonnes. Reuter 
SCOTIA MORTGAGE ISSUES 100 MLN CANADIAN DLR BOND

Scotia Mortgage Corp is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr eurobond due April 9, 1992 paying 8-3/4 pct and priced at 100-3/4 pct, lead manager Wood Gundy Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Canadian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. It is guaranteed by the Bank of Nova Scotia. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct, while management pays 1/4 pct and underwriting pays 3/8 pct. The payment date is April 8 and there will be a long first coupon period. REUTER 
INTL FINANCE CORP IN 50 MLN DLR PRIVATE PLACEMENT

The International Finance Corp is privately placing a 50 mln dlr bond due April 7, 1997 carrying a 7-5/8 pct coupon and priced at 99-3/4 pct, Bank of Tokyo International Ltd said as sole lead manager for the issue. The bond is available in denominations of 25,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. REUTER 
DEUTSCHE BANK UNIT ISSUES 75 MLN STG EUROBOND

Deutsche Bank Finance NV Curacao is issuing a 75 mln stg eurobond due April 2, 1997 paying 9-7/8 pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, joint-lead manager Kleinwort, Benson Ltd said. Deutsche Bank Capital Markets is the other joint-lead manager. The issue is guaranteed by Deutsche Bank AG and is callable at 100-3/8 pct after seven years, declining by 1/8 point per annum to par thereafter. The selling concession is 1-3/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is April 2. REUTER 
VICTORIA STATE BODY ISSUES CANADIAN DLR EUROBOND

Victorian Public Authorities Finance Agency is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 15, 1992 paying 8-1/2 pct and priced at 100-5/8 pct, lead manager Wood Gundy Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Canadaian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. It is guaranteed by the State of Victoria. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and pays 1/4 pct and underwriting 3/8 pct. The payment date is April 15. REUTER 
LONDON OPTIONS MARKET SEES CONTINUED HIGH GROWTH

The London Stock Exchange's traded options market plans volume growth of at least 80 pct a year, and will more than double the range of options available by the end of 1988, options committee chairman Geoffrey Chamberlain said. He told a news conference that more options contracts were traded in 1986 than in the previous seven years of the market's existence. Chamberlain said the daily average volume of contracts traded in February this year almost tripled to 53,056 from 19,034 in the same month last year, and further rapid growth was expected. "We're aiming for 100 stock option classes by the end of 1988," said Chamberlain. These would correspond to the eligible constituents of the FT-SE 100 share index. Chamberlain added that two new equity options were to be introduced this month. Options will be available in Sears Plc <SEHL.L> from March 4, and in Plessey Co. Plc <PLYL.L> from March 19. The London Stock Exchange is the largest outside the United States for options trading. Forty-five equity options, two currency options, two government bond (gilt) options and an option on the FTSE-100 index are available at present. Chamberlain said the Stock Exchange aimed to consolidate the London options market's leading position in Europe, especially important with French and Swiss equity options trading planned to start this year. "I'd go so far as to say the plans for growth are conservative," one leading options analyst said, predicting continuing volume growth of around 20 pct a month for at least the next year. He said much of the recent growth in options had come from inter-market-maker trading aimed at hedging book positions. But now the retail options market was beginning to take off. The market trades from a corner of the now largely deserted floor of the London Stock Exchange. The floor has been left almost empty in the wake of the recent regulatory changes in the equity and gilts (government bond) markets, which have encouraged a move to electronic off-floor trading. Yesterday, the Stock Exchange decided to close the floor to equities trading altogether, and said it expected to make a final decision on the floor's future by the end of 1987. The floor space could be used for a purpose-built options market, but Chamberlain said that it was unlikely that the options market would need more than half of the available space. REUTER 
U.K. EXPORTS BODY GETS NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

Export Credits Guarantee Department has named Malcolm Stephens, director of export finance at Barclay's Bank Plc and a former career civil servant at ECGD for 17 years, to the post of executive director, a department spokesman said. Stephens replaces Jack Gill, who is retiring early aged 57. A drop in the ECGD's business volume and a rise in its debt to the Exchequer have led to criticism in Parliament in recent years. Stephens said the fall in business volume was a top convern, adding that the department may have to compete more aggressively with private insurance firms providing similar services. The department's annual report for the year ended March 31, 1986, showed exports insured by the department fell to 15.7 billion stg from 17.4 billion the year before, while its debt to the Exchequer almost doubled to 756 mln stg. Stephens said he had no specific list of changes. But among his chief concerns was the weakened condition of lesser developed countries and their ability to pay for their imports. The agency will have to review its policies on insuring export credits to lesser credits on a country by country basis, he said. "Large lump political risk insurance is the sort of thing we want to take a look at." "You have to try to look forward to see if you are simply in a peak and trough situation or it is a more long term thing," Stephens said, in response to a qustion about whether ECGD will strike more countries from its list of political risk insurance recipients. He noted that certain countries have already been removed from the list. REUTER 
COLOMBIA TO SELL SUGAR, LONDON TRADERS SAY

Colombia is holding a snap selling tender tonight for one cargo of world market raw sugar, traders said. The sugar is for March 15/April 15 shipment and bids are being sought based on the New York May delivery futures contract, they added. Reuter 
BANK OF ENGLAND PROPOSES LIMITS ON UNDERWRITERS

The Bank of England proposed that banks in Britain for the first time will have to seek authorization to be lead underwriters of new issues in the euromarkets. In addition, the Bank has proposed limits on the amount of credit risk that firms can take on with each new issue they lead manage. The proposed rules were outlined today in a consultative paper on large credit exposures taken by recognized banks and deposit takers and may be modified, the Bank said. The rules could affect billions of dollars of eurobond securities issued each year. In 1986, about 183 billion dlrs of new eurobonds were offered, according to figures compiled by Euromoney magazine. Up until now, there have been no restrictions on lead managing eurobond issues. However, eurobond market participants believe the Bank of England is concerned about intense competition for market share which may have caused some firms to expose themselves to imprudent credit risk. Competition for market share has been a boon to issuers as banks compete to offer the best terms. But the new rules suggest that some constraints may be placed on competition as regulators attempt to ensure that no bank takes on more risk than it can handle. Banking sources said that while the Bank of England is reluctant to inhibit competition, it is willing to accept some constraints in order to ensure that underwriters act prudently. "The Bank's assessment of the appropriateness of a bank's lead underwriting activity will depend primarily upon the skill and experience of the lead underwriter in the particular market concerned...," the Bank's proposal said. Once a firm has received permission to act as lead underwriter, the exposure will be valued at one-sixth of the face amount of the securities. Nominal exposure exceeding 60 pct of capital must be reported to the Bank of England and it must be notified in advance for exposure of over 150 pct of capital. The exposure will be determined to exist for a maximum of 28 days following a binding commitment to underwrite. After that, any remaining exposure from unsold securities will be assessed at their full face value. The rules would not apply to syndicated loan facilities, revolving credits or commercial paper, the Bank said. The Bank also amended other aspects of plans to strengthen its supervisory powers over banks in the paper, which called for comments from professionals by March 31 to allow their possible inclusion in the Banking Bill in time for its planned final discussion in Parliament, scheduled before summer. The new Banking Bill, updating the 1979 Banking Act, is the third leg of the Conservative government's legislation for the supervision of financial institutions. It is to feature alongside the Financial Services Act, aimed to bolster investor protection, and the Building Societies Act, which put these institutions on an equal footing with banks. The proposed legislation would abolish distinctions between recognised banks and licensed deposit-takers and tighten legal controls, making it a criminal offence to mislead supervisors. Proposals to require banks to inform the Bank of England in advance of planned exposures in excess of 25 pct of their capital, and to have the Bank supervise exposures between 10 and 25 pct of capital, were not under debate, the paper showed. However, preliminary consultations with bank representatives had shown some of the initial proposals to be flawed, it said. Most proposed changes involved evaluating exposures on a case-by-case basis rather than along general lines. Amendments involved the Bank's proposed treatment of exposures by financial institutions acting as banker to other units of their own group of companies, the paper showed. They also regarded the treatment of credit exposure to local governments and other public sector entities, and of exposures undertaken by banks that are subsidiaries of banks. Proposals on how to value securities given by a debtor as collateral to a credit were slightly changed, the paper showed. Exposures taken on by banks acting as creditor within their own group of companies would usually be looked into on a case-by-case basis under new proposals, it said. The paper said exposures to state-owned industries and other public sector authorities in the U.K. and abroad should be given the more lenient treatment of credits to governments provided a government gives unconditional repayment guarantees. It cautioned that exposures to U.K. local authorities and those guaranteed by the British Export Credit Guarantee Department would probably not qualify for such treatment. On credits granted by banks which are a subsidiary of another bank, an earlier-proposed 100 pct of capital ceiling could be exceeded in individual cases. But the parent bank would have to give a formal undertaking to take over the exposure if problems were to occur, and state in writing that the exposure was retained in the subsidiary's balance sheet to meet precise group objectives, the paper said. On collateral security, it said this "should normally only be taken into account when considering the acceptability of a bank's exposure up to 25 pct of its capital base." "The presence of security taken on its own will be considered by the Bank as an acceptable reason for an exposure in excess of 25 pct, but only in the most exceptional circumstances and even then to a very limited extent," it said. Reuter 
COFFEE MAY FALL MORE BEFORE NEW QUOTA TALKS

Coffee prices may have to fall even lower to bring exporting and importing countries once more round the negotiating table to discuss export quotas, ICO delegates and traders said. The failure last night of International Coffee Organization, ICO, producing and consuming countries to agree export quotas brought a sharp fall on international coffee futures markets today with the London May price reaching a 4-1/2 year low at one stage of 1,270 stg per tonne before ending the day at 1,314 stg, down 184 stg from the previous close. The New York May price was down 15.59 at 108.00 cents a lb. Pressure will now build up on producers returning from the ICO talks to sell coffee which had been held back in the hope the negotiations would establish quotas which would put a floor under prices, some senior traders said. The ICO 15 day average price stood at 114.66 cents a lb for March 2. This compares with a target range of 120 to 140 cents a lb under the system operating before quotas were suspended in February last year following a sharp rise in international prices caused by drought damage to the Brazilian crop. In a Reuter interview, Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, President Jorio Dauster urged producers not to panic and said they need to make hard commercial decisions. "If we have failed at the ICO, at least we have tried," Dauster said, adding "now it is time to go and sell coffee." But Brazil is keeping its marketing options open. It plans to make an official estimate of the forthcoming crop next month, Dauster said. It is too difficult to forecast now. Trade sources have put the crop at over 26 mln bags compared with a previous crop of 11.2 mln. Brazil is defining details of public selling tenders for coffee bought on London's futures market last year. A basic condition will be that it does not go back to the market "in one go" but is sold over a minimum of six months. The breakdown of the ICO negotiations reflected a split between producers and consumers on how to set the yardstick for future quotas. Consumers said "objective criteria" like average exports and stocks should determine producer quota shares, Dauster said. All elements of this proposal were open to negotiation but consumers insisted they did not want a return to the "ad hoc" way of settling export quotas by virtual horse trading amongst producers whilst consumers waited in the corridors of the ICO. Dauster said stocks and exports to ICO members and non-members all need to be considered when setting quotas and that Brazil would like to apply the coffee pact with a set ratio of overall quota reflecting stock holdings. It is a "simplistic misconception that Brazil can dictate" policy to other producers. While consumer countries are welcome to participate they cannot dictate quotas which are very difficult to allocate as different "objective criteria" achieve different share-outs of quota, Dauster said. Other delegates said there was more open talking at the ICO and at least differences were not hidden by a bad compromise. Consumer delegates said they had not been prepared to accept the producers' offer to abandon quotas if it proves impossible to find an acceptable basis for them. "We want the basis of quotas to reflect availability and to encourage stock holding as an alternative to a buffer stock if supplies are needed at a later stage," one delegate said. Some consumers claimed producer support for the consumer argument was gaining momentum towards the end of the ICO session but said it is uncertain whether this will now collapse and how much producers will sink their differences should prices fall further and remain depressed. The ICO executive board meets here March 30 to April 1 but both producer and consumer delegates said they doubt if real negotiations will begin then. The board is due to meet in Indonesia in June with a full council scheduled for September. More cynical traders said the pressure of market forces and politics in debt heavy Latin American producer countries could bring ICO members back around the negotiating table sooner than many imagine. In that case quotas could come into force during the summer. But most delegates and traders said quotas before October are unlikely, while Brazil's Dauster noted the ICO has continued although there were no quotas from 1972 to 1980. A clear difference between the pressures already being felt by importers and exporters was that consumers would have been happy to agree on a formula for future quotas even if it could not be imposed now. At least in that way they said they could show a direct relationship between quotas and availability. In contrast producers wanted stop-gap quotas to plug the seemingly bottomless market and were prepared to allow these to lapse should lasting agreement not be found. "Producers were offering us jam tomorrow but after their failure to discuss them last year promises were insufficient and we wanted a cast iron commitment now," one consumer said. Reuter 
PANCANADIAN TO SELL BRITISH INTERESTS

<PanCanadian Petroleum Ltd> said it agreed to sell its working interest in its North Sea properties and its British unit, Canadian Pacific Oil and Gas of Canada Ltd, to Whitehall Petroleum Ltd, a private British company. PanCanadian, 87 pct-owned by Canadian Pacific Ltd <CP>, said it would receive 1.7 mln British pounds cash (3.5 mln Canadian dlrs) at closing, expected in two to three months. It said the deal is subject to approval by regulators and its partners in the properties, which consist of exploration wells. It will also retain a royalty interest in the properties. Reuter 
U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES

A total 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 43.147 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at today's European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said. Out of this, traders in the U.K. Received 43,500 tonnes, in the Netherlands 12,000, in Denmark 4,000 and in West Germany 1,000 tonnes. Earlier today, London and Paris traders said they expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-July to be between 43.00 and 43.45 Ecus per 100 kilos. They had also forecast today's total authorised sugar tonnage export awards to be between 60,000 and 80,000 tonnes versus 103,000 last week when the restitution was 43.699 Ecus. REUTER 
IRAN ANNOUNCES NEW OFFENSIVE IN GULF WAR

Iran announced it had launched a new offensive against Iraq in the north-west area of the Gulf war front. Tehran radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said the attack was launched last night in the Haj Omran area of northern Iraq. It had already achieved "considerable victories," the radio said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 85 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late assistance of around 85 mln stg. This brings the bank total help so far today to some 87 mln stg and compares with its latest forecast of a 250 mln stg shortage in the system today. REUTER 
VNESHTORGBANK SEEKS 200 MLN DLR LOAN

Vneshtorgbank, the Soviet foreign trade bank, is seeking a 200 mln dlr, eight-year multi-currency syndicated loan, First Chicago Ltd said as arranger and sole mandated bank. The loan will pay 1/8 point over London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) throughout the whole of its life. It will be repayable in semi-annual instalments starting after six years. No further details were immediately available. First Chicago later said that lead managers participating in the syndicated loan would receive a flat fee of 35 basis points. REUTER 
DNC UNIT ISSUES 19 BILLION ZERO COUPON YEN BOND

DNC International Finance A/S is issuing a 19 billion yen, zero coupon eurobond due March 17, 1992 and priced at 80.9 pct, lead manager Daiwa Europe Ltd said. The bond is guaranteed by Den norske Creditbank and is available in denominations of one mln yen. It will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date is March 17. Fees comprise one pct selling concession with 55 basis points for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
HAMBURGISCHE L/B ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR EUROBOND

Hamburgische Landesbank Girozentrale is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 2, 1991 paying 15 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Orion Royal Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is April 2. REUTER 
U.K. ONE BILLION STG BOND ISSUE EXHAUSTED

A one billion stg issue of nine pct Exchequer stock due 2002 which became available for trading only this morning was exhausted in mid-afternoon trading on the U.K. Government bond market, dealers said. The Bank of England said the issue was no longer operating as a tap. The issue was announced Monday at a price of 96 stg pct and dealers said the Government broker's supplies were sold out this afternoon at a partly-paid 20-20/32 stg pct. The bonds started trading this morning at 20 stg pct. Dealers noted the market had seen vigorous demand throughout the day, prompted mainly by sterling strength. Dealers said that demand had been seen for the tap from both domestic and overseas sources, including from Japan and the U.S. Although the issue had not been designated as free of tax to residents abroad (FOTRA) widespread bullish sentiment for the market in general had generated foreign buying. The stock had been regarded as slightly expensive when it was announced and dealers said that even first thing this morning it had seemed slightly dear in relation to comparable existing stocks. However, sterling's continuing firm performance had prompted interest in the tap right at the outset. The issue's value had been enhanced by its partly-paid structure, which not only enabled investors to defer payment of the major part of the price until April 27, but also conferred a substantial gearing element. This meant, dealers explained, that investors who bought the bonds benefitted fully from price gains registered by the market in general, although only 20 stg pct of the total purchase price was tied up initially. REUTER 
EC COMMISSION DETAILS SUGAR TENDER

The European Commission confirmed it authorised the export of 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum rebate of 43.147 European Currency Units (ECUs) per 100 kilos. Out of this, traders in the U.K. Received 43,500 tonnes, in the Netherlands 12,000, in Denmark 4,000 and in West Germany 1,000 tonnes. REUTER 



CEREALS MCAS TO BE UNCHANGED NEXT WEEK

Cereals Monetary Compensatory Amounts, MCAs, will be unchanged for the week starting March 9, an EC Commission spokesman said. They will be plus 2.4 points for the Netherlands and West Germany, minus two for Denmark, minus eight for France, minus nine for Ireland, minus 5.7 for Italy, minus 30.2 for Britain, minus 44.1 for Greece and minus 10.5 for Spain. Reuter 
JANUARY CRUDE OIL MOVEMENTS FALL SEVEN MLN TONS

Worldwide spot crude oil movements fell to 30.07 mln long dwt in February from 37.25 mln tons in January and 41.44 mln in December, London shipbroker Howard Houlder said. The decline mainly reflected a sharp drop in movements out of the Mideast Gulf, which totalled 7.4 mln tons last month against 11.65 mln in January. These included shipments to western options at 2.05 mln tons against 3.59 mln previously. Liftings from the Gulf to eastern options fell to 4.15 mln tons from 5.94 mln and those from the Gulf to other areas dropped to 1.2 mln tons from 2.13 mln, Howard Houlder said. U.K./Continent coastal movements declined sharply to 2.91 mln tons from 4.77 mln but those from the U.K./Continent to the U.S. rose to 1.99 mln from 1.69 mln. Reuter 
INDIA BUYS UP TO 10 CARGOES SUGAR - TRADERS

India bought up to 10 cargoes of white sugar at a buying tender today which originally called for just two to three cargoes of March/April shipment, traders said. London trader E D and F Man said it sold two cargoes at 233 dlrs a tonne CIF for March/April shipment with an option to sell an additional two cargoes at the same price. Traders said at least one other international trader made a similar contract while a French house sold two cargoes at an outright price of 233 dlrs CIF without the option. This brought total Indian purchases to at least six cargoes with traders having options to sell another four. Reuter 
FRENCH WHEAT EXPORTS TO EC FALL

French soft wheat exports to other European Community countries fell 18 pct to 4.13 mln tonnes in the first seven months of the 1986/87 season to January compared with 5.04 mln in the same 1985/86 period, the French Cereals Intervention Office (ONIC) said. According to latest ONIC statistics, the main buyers were Italy with 1.89 mln against 1.63 mln in the same 1985/86 period, West Germany 480,450 tonnes against 717,689, the Netherlands 462,048 (532,299) and Belgium 417,887 tonnes (919,337). British and Greek imports of French soft wheat during this period were below year-ago levels. Between July 1 last year and January 31, Britain bought 274,665 tonnes against 642,800 tonnes, ONIC figures showed. But Spanish purchases were up sharply at 258,507 tonnes against 2,751 tonnes in the same 1985/86 period and Portugal bought 37,599 tonnes compared with zero. ONIC said the drop in French exports to other Community countries was due to British competition. Reuter 
U.K. OIL INDUSTRY SAID NOT PERMANENTLY DAMAGED

The U.K. Offshore oil industry has suffered from last year's collapse in oil prices but should not sustain any permament damage, Minister of State for Energy Alick Buchanan-Smith said. The drilling, diving and supply vessels sectors had been most affected, Buchanan Snith told the House of Commons energy committee. He noted, however, that oil companies were still spending six mln stg a day to maintain North Sea production. He added that a report by the manpower services committee which said 14,000 jobs were lost in the industry in 1986 should be seen in the context of a total workforce of 300,000. Prices of North Sea Brent-grade crude dipped to a low of 8.50 dlrs a barrel last July from a peak of over 30 dlrs the previous November. They recovered to around 18 dlrs a barrel after last December's OPEC meeting and Brent traded today around 17.15 dlrs. Buchanan-Smith said the U.K. Has no intention of adopting OPEC style quotas, noting that Britian is an oil-consuming as well as an oil-producing nation. Reuter 
KENYA SIGNS PACT TO ESTABLISH OWN SHIPPING LINE

Kenya has signed an agreement with British and German interests to establish a shipping line that will handle 40 pct of the country's external trade, sources close to the deal said. The state-owned Kenya Ports Authority, KPA, signed an agreement with the Hamburg-based shipping line Unimar Seetransport to establish the Kenya National Shipping line, with an initial capital of 100 mln shillings, sources said. KPA will hold 70 pct of the shares in the new company. The line will initially charter vessels to operate services between Mombasa and the main ports of industrial Europe, but may eventually build or buy its own ships. The sources said it would aim to carry a large part of Kenya's coffee and tea exports and oil and fertiliser imports. Reuter 
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA ISSUES NOVEL BOND

The Commonwealth Bank of Australia is issuing a novel 100 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 6, 1992 paying an initial coupon of 16 pct and priced at 101 pct, lead manager Swiss Bank Corporation International said. The coupon will then be re-fixed annually at the one-year Australian Treasury rate. There will also be an investor put option annually at par. The selling concession is 3/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/8 pct. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by Australia and will be listed in Luxembourg. It is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and the payment date is April 6. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses. The Bank forecast the shortage in the system today at around 1.15 billion stg. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 732 mln stg and exchequer transactions some 245 mln. In addition, bankers' balances below target and a rise in note circulation will drain a further 135 mln stg and 30 mln stg respectively. REUTER 
IRAN REPORTS HEAVY FIGHTING IN IRAQI KURDISTAN

Iran said its troops repulsed heavy Iraqi counter-attacks and continued their advance through the rugged mountains of Iraqi Kurdistan in overnight fighting on the northern war front. Iran launched the new offensive, codenamed Karbala-7, on Tuesday night among the snow-capped peaks of the Haj Omran border area of northeast Iraq. The Iranian news agency IRNA, received in London, said the troops "continued their successful advance ... With more thrusts into enemy positions." It said "remnants of Iraqi Brigade 604 was shattered and 200 of its personnel killed or wounded." One battalion of the 25th Division's Third Brigade thrown into counter-attacks today suffered 70 pct losses, the agency added. Some 208 prisoners of war had been taken from the front. IRNA said the Iranian forces backed by heavy artillery fire were continuing to advance. No Iranian casualties were given. The area between Haj Omran and the Kurdish town of Rawandiz some 65 km inside Iraq was the scene of heavy fighting in 1983. Iran has backed dissident Kurds in the area in attacks on government positions and installations in northern Iraq. IRNA said the Iranian forces captured large amounts of munitions in the latest fighting. The Iraqis have made no comment so far on the Kurdistan fighting, or on advances Tehran reported yesterday on the southern war front east of the strategic Iraqi port of Basra. IRNA said today a group of its reporters visited newly-captured areas on the southern front and found the battlefield littered with the bodies of Iraqi soldiers and burnt military equipment. They quoted an Iranian soldier, Hamid Dehqani, as saying heavy rainfall during the past few days "had paralysed the Iraqi enemy from embarking on any action" against the attacking Iranians. IRNA referred to the "Fish Canal" -- the man-made Fish Lake -- made by the Iraqis as a defensive barrier on the eastern side of the Shatt al-Arab waterway. The agency yesterday said infantry and armour of the Revolutionary Guards had captured strong defences west of the canal in bitter fighting with Iraqi troops. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 17 MLN STG EARLY HELP

The Bank of England said it provided just 17 mln stg assistance to the money market in response to an early round of bill offers. Earlier, the Bank had estimated the shortage in the system today at around 1.15 billion stg. The central bank purchased bills for resale to the market on April 2 at an interest rate of 10-15/16 pct. REUTER 
RANK ORGANISATION HAS 100 MLN STG CP PROGRAM

The Rank Organisation Plc said it has appointed County Natwest Capital Markets Ltd, Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd and Swiss Bank Corporation International as dealers in a 100 mln stg commercial paper program. The notes will be issued in any maturity of between seven and 364 days and the funds will be used for the company's general financing requirements. Arranger for the facility is County Natwest Capital Markets Ltd while National Westminster Bank Plc will act as issuing and paying agent, Rank added. REUTER 
FIRS SLIGHTLY RAISES EC BEET SUGAR OUTPUT ESTIMATE

The French sugar market intervention board, FIRS, raised its estimate of 1986/87 beet sugar production in the 12-member European Community to 13.76 mln tonnes white equivalent in its end-February report from 13.74 mln a month earlier. Its forecast for total EC sugar production, including cane and molasses, rose to 14.10 mln tonnes from 14.09 mln. Portugal, which joined the Community in January 1986, was estimated at 12.75 mln tonnes white equivalent, unchanged from the previous forecast and compared with 12.41 mln tonnes for 1985/86. Production for the current campaign in Spain was higher than reported last month at 1.03 mln tonnes compared with 997,000 tonnes. Beet sugar production, expressed as white equivalent, was estimated at 3.44 mln tonnes in France, 3.17 mln tonnes in West Germany, 1.72 mln in Italy, 1.30 mln in Britain, 1.22 mln in the Netherlands, 936,000 tonnes in Belgium/Luxembourg, 499,000 in Denmark, 287,000 in Greece, 183,000 in Ireland and 4,000 in Portugal. REUTER 
CANADA ZERO ISSUES CANADIAN DLR ZERO COUPON BOND

Canada Zero, a sole purpose company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, is issuing a zero coupon eurobond with a total redemption amount of 150 mln Canadian dlrs, lead manager CIBC Ltd said. The issue matures on May 1, 2001 and is priced at 30 pct. It is secured with Canadian government bonds. The selling concession is 3/4 while management and underwriting each pay 1/4 pct. The payment date is April 30. Listing is in Luxembourg. A CIBC spokesmn said the issue yields 49 basis points over equivalent Canadian Treasury bonds. It is available in denominations of 5,000 and 100,000 Canadian dlrs. REUTER 
STRONG EARTHQUAKE REPORTED IN NORTHERN CHILE

A strong earthquake measuring an estimated 8.0 on the open-ended Richter scale hit northern Chile around 0936, the Meteorological Agency here reported. The agency said the information had been received from Honolulu. It gave no further details. REUTER 
U.K. FOURTH QUARTER TRADE DEFICIT 2.6 BILLION STG

Britain had a visible trade deficit of 2.6 billion stg in the fourth quarter of 1986 against a revised deficit of 2.9 billion in the third quarter, official statistics show. Seasonally-adjusted figures issued by the Central Statistical Office (CSO) show the current account was in deficit by 760 mln stg against an upwardly revised third quarter shortfall of 930 mln. For 1986 as a whole, visible trade was in deficit by 8.3 billion stg, sharply up from 1985's 2.2. Billion shortfall and a 4.4 billion deficit in 1984. Preliminary figures for invisible transactions in the fourth quarter show a surplus 1.8 billion stg to give an estimated surplus for 1986 of 7.2 billion. The fourth quarter figure was in line with CSO projections released on Friday. The third quarter invisibles surplus was revised down to 1.9 billion stg from 2.25 billion. In 1985 the invisibles surplus was 5.1 billion stg. The reduced deficit on visible trade in the fourth quarter was due to an increase in the surplus on oil of 200 mln stg and a reduction in the non-oil trade deficit of 100 mln, the CSO said. However, 1986's surplus on oil trade was 4.0 billion stg lower than in 1985, while the deficit on non-oil trade increased by 2.1 billion. The figures were broadly in line with market expectations. The CSO stressed that figures for invisible transactions, particularly for the most recent quarters are liable to substantial revisions as later information becomes available. REUTER 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS POSTPONED TILL MONDAY

Talks set for today between management and unions to try to solve the labour dispute at Cargill U.K. Ltd's Seaforth oilseed crushing plant have been rescheduled for Monday, a company spokesman said. Oilseed processing at the mill has been at a standstill since December 19. REUTER 
U.K. GRAIN/POTATO FUTURES VOLUME DOWN IN FEBRUARY

Traded volumes for U.K. Grain and potato futures in February were down on the previous month while pigmeat and pig cash settlement futures were higher, official figures show. Combined wheat and barley futures trade declined to 892,700 tonnes from 1.19 mln in January, and the value fell to 97 mln stg from 129 mln, Grain and Feed Trade Association (GAFTA) figures show. A total of 984,960 tonnes were registered for main crop potato futures in February valued at 157 mln stg, versus 992,760 and 164 mln stg in January. Soymeal futures trade totalled 76,340 tonnes against 90,680 in January, and value declined to nine mln stg from 10 mln. Nine pigmeat contracts were traded in February, six more than in the previous month, representing 450 carcases against 150, valued at 29,347 stg against 9,847 stg. Pig cash settlement futures saw 201 contracts traded, against 19 in January, and the value rose to 659,864 stg from 119,610 stg. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER SMALL ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with a further 20 mln stg of assistance during the morning. It again bought bills for resale to the market on April 2 at a rate of 10-15/16 pct. Earlier this morning, it bought 17 mln stg of bills at the same rate and for resale on the same date. The Bank has thus given a total of 37 mln stg so far today, which leaves the bulk of a 1.15 billion stg shortage still in the system. Dealers noted that money market rates again eased this morning and the Bank may have refused bill offers from the discount houses at rates below its established dealing levels. REUTER 
MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC TRADING ISSUES WARRANT BOND

Matushita Electric Trading Co Ltd is issuing a 100 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due March 30, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-3/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. Final terms on the non-callable bond will be fixed on March 12. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The payment date is March 30 while listing will be in Luxembourg. The issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs. The warrant exercise period is from April 15, 1987 until March 17, 1992. REUTER 
TANZANIAN RAILWAYS SECURE 25.6 MLN DLRS AID

State-run Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) has secured 25.6 mln dlrs aid from banks and European countries for a one-year emergency repair program, Transport Minister Mustafa Nyang'anyi said. Nyang'anyi told Reuters on his return from a World Bank sponsored donors' conference in New York that the aid would enable TRC to buy spares for 32 locomotives, overhaul 800 wagons and replace 67,000 sleepers over the next 12 months. The World Bank, African Development Bank, European Community, Canada, Belgium, West Germany, Britain, Sweden, Italy and Denmark had contributed to the package, he said. TRC runs a rail network linking Dar es Salaam and the northern port of Tanga with the coffee-growing area around Mount Kilimanjaro and ports on Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika. It is under separate administration from the Tanzania-Zambia railway linking Dar es Salaam with the Zambian copperbelt and the railway system of southern Africa, which has already received substantial aid as part of international efforts to ease the dependence of landlocked African states on trade routes through South Africa. But this is the first international aid package for TRC, which also carries cargo for Uganda, Zaire and Burundi. REUTER 
MITSUI AND CO EUROBONDS FORMALLY LAUNCHED

The two 150 mln dlr equity warrant eurobonds for Mitsui and Co Ltd, reported earlier today from Tokyo, have now been formally launched, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The first tranche matures on March 30, 1992 and has an indicated coupon of 2-3/4 pct while the second tranche matures on March 30, 1994 and has a fixed coupon of three pct. Both deals have an indicated pricing of par. The selling concession for both deals is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. Final terms on the deals will be fixed on March 12. Reuter 
EARLY MARCH OPEC OUTPUT SEEN WELL BELOW CEILING

OPEC crude oil output in the first few days of March was running at about 14.7 mln bpd, down from a 16 mln bpd average for February and well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling the group adopted in December, a Reuter survey shows. The figures were polled by Reuters correspondents from oil traders, industry executives and analysts in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia. They back recent statements by OPEC ministers that the group is producing within its ceiling to support the return to a fixed price system, which came into effect last month. OPEC output for the whole of February was about 200,000 bpd above the ceiling, largely because of overproduction by the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, the figures show. The UAE, together with the much smaller producer Ecuador, was also producing above quota in the first days of March, the survey reveals. But such overproduction was compensated for by a sharp fall in Saudi Arabian output, together with Iran"s inability to export as much as its quota allows. Iraq rejected its OPEC quota of 1.466 mln bpd and produced 1.75 mln bpd in February and early March, the figures showed. Saudi output -- excluding movements into stocks -- fell to 3.1 mln bpd in early March from 3.5 mln bpd in February, against a 4.133 mln bpd quota. The Saudi figures include a 200,000 bpd share of Neutral Zone production. Kuwait, which has consistently denied quota violations, was estimated to be pumping 1.4 mln bpd in February and 1.15 in early March -- both figures including 200,000 bpd as its share of Neutral Zone output -- against its 948,000 bpd quota. Reports of customer resistance to fixed prices set by some OPEC states were reflected in output from Qatar and Nigeria, both substantially under quota in February and early March. Qatar's February output was 230,000 bpd, and this fell to 180,000 bpd in early March compared with its 285,000 bpd quota. Industry sources say Japanese buyers are resisting Qatar"s prices and Gulf Arab oil states have pledged to make up for any shortfall in sales which a fellow Gulf state suffers. Nigeria's early March output was about one mln bpd, down from 1.14 mln bpd in February and its quota of 1.238 mln bpd. Industry sources say Nigeria's customers believe its Bonny grades are overpriced compared with compatible Brent crudes from the U.K. North Sea. Country-by-country production figures are as follows, in mln bpd - COUNTRY CURRENT FEBRUARY QUOTA ALGERIA 0.64 0.64 0.635 ECUADOR 0.26 0.26 0.210 GABON 0.15 0.15 0.152 INDONESIA 1.16 1.16 1.133 IRAN 1.80 2.20 2.255 IRAQ 1.75 1.75 1.466 KUWAIT 1.15 1.40 0.948 LIBYA 0.95 0.95 0.948 NIGERIA 1.00 1.14 1.238 QATAR 0.18 0.23 0.285 SAUDI ARABIA 3.10 3.50 4.133 UAE 1.10 1.15 0.902 VENEZUELA 1.50 1.50 1.495 TOTAL 14.7 16.0 15.8 REUTER Reuter 
TANZANIAN RAILWAYS SECURE 25.6 MLN DLRS AID

State-run Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) has secured 25.6 mln dlrs aid from banks and European countries for a one-year emergency repair program, Transport Minister Mustafa Nyang'anyi said. Nyang'anyi told Reuters on his return from a World Bank sponsored donors' conference in New York that the aid would enable TRC to buy spares for 32 locomotives, overhaul 800 wagons and replace 67,000 sleepers over the next 12 months. The World Bank, African Development Bank, European Community, Canada, Belgium, West Germany, Britain, Sweden, Italy and Denmark had contributed to the package, he said. TRC runs a rail network linking Dar es Salaam and the northern port of Tanga with the coffee-growing area around Mount Kilimanjaro and ports on Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika. It is under separate administration from the Tanzania-Zambia railway linking Dar es Salaam with the Zambian copperbelt and the railway system of southern Africa, which has already received substantial aid as part of international efforts to ease the dependence of landlocked African states on trade routes through South Africa. But this is the first international aid package for TRC, which also carries cargo for Uganda, Zaire and Burundi. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN HELP, OFFERED FACILITIES

The Bank of England said it had given the money market 206 mln stg of assistance this afternoon and offered the discount houses borrowing facilities to take out the rest of the 1.10 billion stg shortage, revised down from an initial 1.15 billion estimate. It made no alteration to its established dealing rates, buying 95 mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-7/8 pct and 111 mln of band two bank bills at 10-13/16 pct. This brings the Bank's total assistance so far today to 243 mln stg. REUTER 
IBJ ESTABLISHES 200 MLN STG CD PROGRAMME

The Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd (IBJ), London Branch, said it is establishing a sterling certificate of deposit (CD) issuance programme for up to 200 mln stg. The arranger is LLoyds Merchant Bank Ltd and dealers are LLoyds, Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd, Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. The paper will have maturities between seven and 365 days. REUTER 
BRITAIN SEEMS SET FOR NEW CASH ROW WITH EC

Britain appeared set for a new cash row with its European Community partners as evidence emerged that it could be much worse off as a result of new proposals to radically alter the way the EC is financed. Analysis by officials and diplomats of proposals released yesterday by the EC's executive Commission showed their full impact, were they in force this year, would have left Britain worse off by 545 mln European Currency Units. The proposals have to be agreed unanimously by member government after a debate expected to open next month. The Commission said they were necessary to prevent the EC from sliding once again into bankruptcy, and has described the current financing system as unfair and unacceptable. British dissatisfaction with the cost of EC membership has long been a source of friction, and diplomats said the proposals could well reopen the wound. This was despite a proposed correction of Britain's budget contribution to reflect its inability to take full advantage of the EC's farm subsidies system because of the relatively small size of its agricultural sector. Diplomats said although other nations such as Italy, Belgium and the Netherlands were certain to oppose elements in the system which could also substantially increase their own EC payments, the main opposition was expected from Britain. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has made clear in recent statements that she is not prepared to abandon the present system, under which Britain is refunded two-thirds of its net payments to the EC, unless a fairer system is devised. The diplomats said Thatcher was unlikely to consider the proposed system as fair. The Commission's proposals would base a state's contribution on its gross national product, which the commission says is a fairer measurement reflecting relative wealth. The main element of the previous system was a share of value added tax collected in member states. The mechanism to compensate Britain for its inability to take up a higher proportion of EC farm expenditure will have to be paid for by the other 11 states. The Commission has also proposed to end repayments to all states of a service charge paid to them for collecting customs duties on behalf of the EC. REUTER 
SALOMON SELLS 200 MLN STG MORTGAGES-BACKED NOTES

Salomon Inc's TMC Mortgage Securities I Plc unit is issuing 200 mln stg floating rate mortgage-backed notes priced at par, said Salomon Brothers International as co-lead manager. S.G. Warburg Securities is the other co-lead manager. The securities are priced at 25 basis points over the three month London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor), payable quarterly. They are payable March 31. Salomon said it expects the securities to receive a AA rating from Standard and Poor's Corp. The mortgages in the pool are endowment-linked residential mortgage loans and the entire pool is insured by Sun Alliance and London Insurance Plc. The notes will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Combined management and underwriting fees are 50 basis points. REUTER 
PIRELLI UK INT FINANCE ISSUES 50 MLN STG EUROBOND

Pirelli UK International Finance BV is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due April 9, 1992 paying 10 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Barclays De Zoete Wedd Ltd. The non callable issue is available in denominations of 10,000 and 1,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date April 9, 1987. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management pays 1/4 pct and underwriting 3/8 pct. REUTER 
PIRELLI UK INT FINANCE ISSUES 50 MLN STG EUROBOND

Pirelli UK International Finance BV is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due April 9, 1992 paying 10 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Barclays De Zoete Wedd Ltd. The non callable issue is available in denominations of 10,000 and 1,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date April 9, 1987. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management pays 1/4 pct and underwriting 3/8 pct. Reuter 
GREAT AMERICAN ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Great American First Savings Bank is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due April 2, 1992 paying five pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said. The issue is collateralised for 140 to 150 pct by U.S. Government and federal securities and cash, to aim for a AAA listing, a Nikko official said. The issue is available in denominations of 20 and five mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is April 2, 1987. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. REUTER 
GREAT AMERICAN ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Great American First Savings Bank is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due April 2, 1992 paying five pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said. The issue is collateralised for 140 to 150 pct by U.S. Government and federal securities and cash, to aim for a AAA listing, a Nikko official said. The issue is available in denominations of 20 and five mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is April 2, 1987. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. Reuter 
INDIA BOUGHT AT LEAST EIGHT CARGOES SUGAR--TRADE

India bought eight cargoes of white sugar at a buying tender this week but also gave sellers options to sell an extra eight cargoes at the same prices, traders said. Four international firms shared the business which gave each of them sales of two cargoes of Mar/Apr shipment sugar at 233 dlrs CIF and options on two cargoes of Apr/May. This brings recent options India has given traders to some 200,000 tonnes at fixed prices and makes future Indian purchases very dependent on price fluctuations, traders said. At 233 dlrs CIF the sugar sold this week was at a discount of up to 10 dlrs to current prices, some traders said. Reuter 
BANK OF ENGLAND RESISTS PRESSURE FOR RATE CUT

The Bank of England again fought against money and bond market pressure for a pre-Budget interest rate cut, leaving the pound to take the strain with a further rise in its trade-weighted index to a six-month high. It closed at its best level since September 12, at 71.4 pct of its 1975 value on the index, as foreign investors continued to buy into a currency which offers high relative returns and the possibility of short-term capital gains, dealers said. Meanwhile, opinion is divided over whether the Bank can stop a cut before Budget Day, March 17, and why it should want to. The Bank's latest strong signal to the market that it wants rates to stay steady for the moment came in midafternoon, when it lent to the discount houses at a penal rate of 11-3/4 pct to relieve a money market shortage. "They're really making the discount houses suffer," said Stephen Lewis, economist at brokerage house Phillips and Drew. "Eleven and three-quarters pct is way above money market rates." This money market signal was apparently not accompanied by any sterling sales on the foreign exchanges, talk of which had inhibited strong rises yesterday and Tuesday, so buyers came strongly into the pound. The pound surged to a high of 1.5798/808 dlrs at the London close, up from the previous finish at 1.5650/60, and 2.8900/60 marks, up from 2.8720/50. "If this pressure keeps up...There is a possibility that rates could drop before the Budget," said Jeremy Hale, economist at finance house Goldman Sachs International Corp. Some gilt traders are forecasting a half-point cut in the base rate from the current 11 pct as early as tomorrow. However, analysts said the Bank of England will need to be convinced that the present rise is a fundamental re-rating rather than a result of short-term speculative gains. There are valid reasons for the Bank to be cautious, said Peter Fellner, U.K. Economist at brokers James Capel and Co. Markets have become highly optimistic about the chances of a Conservative Party victory in any early general election, and disappointment if Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher decides to hold back could lead to a decline in the pound and a setback for bonds, Fellner said. An election could be delayed until mid-1988, but most forecasts say it will be this year. Others note that the pound could yet prove vulnerable to oil price losses or a change of fortune for the dollar. However, analysts agree the Bank is largely trying to set the timing of a cut than holding out against one altogether. The authorities traditionally prefer a single sustainable rate move, one way or the other, to half points here and there. Some add the Bank will be influenced by signs that at least a proportion of the latest bout of sterling buying is long-term capital coming into the London market, notably from Japan. They argue that the pound is being perceived as a safer bet than the dollar, given the latters recent sharp falls and current political upheavals in Washington. The Bank may want to see another few points on the trade-weighted index before the Budget, argued Lewis. "But by then sterling should be firm enough to satisfy even the Bank of England," he added. The Bank declined to comment on its reasons for resisting pressure for a rate move before the budget, but banking sources said the authorities see the recent rise in sterling as more than just marking up by foreign exchange traders. Meanwhile, analysts noted the market ignored potentially harmful news on the trade front, today's figures showing that the current account deficit in 1986 was 1.1 billion stg. This was above previous estimates of the current account deficit and compares with a surplus of 2.9 billion stg in 1985. Fellner said that under more normal conditions this would have given the bond and currency markets a pause, but that they were too bullish to worry about such fundamentals. The guessing game over the timing of a cut has the clearing banks divided as well as the markets. Privately, some bank officials forecast the Bank will hold out at least for this week, but at least one bank says a rise is possible tomorrow. If a move comes before March 17, forecasts are for a half-point cut, with another half or full point about Budget day. REUTER 
TRADERS DETAIL IRISH INTERVENTION BARLEY TENDER

The European Commission authorised the export of 33,500 tonnes of Irish intervention barley at today's tender for non-European Community destinations at 53.10 Ecus per tonne, grain traders said. Reuter 
KAINES SELLS JORDAN TWO CARGOES OF WHITE SUGAR

Trade house Kaines said it sold Jordan two cargoes of white sugar at its buying tender today. The sale comprised two 12,000 to 14,000 tonne cargoes (plus or minus 10 pct) for Mar/Apr shipment, a Kaines trader said. Traders said the business was done at 235.5 dlrs a tonne cost and freight. Reuter 
TURKEY SEEKING 100,000 TONNES SUGAR - TRADE

Turkey is holding a buying tender for 100,000 tonnes of white sugar on March 24, traders here said. The sugar is being sought for early arrival and will probably be met with April/May shipment sugar, they added. Earlier today newspapers in Turkey carried an advertisement from Turkish Sugar Factories inviting offers of 100,000 tonnes of crystal sugar with a 50 pct option to increase or decrease the amount. Over the 1983/85 period Turkey each year has exported between 240,000 and 350,000 tonnes of whites to Iran and between 62,000 and 230,000 tonnes to Iraq. Following lower sugar crops in the past two years analysts said Turkey needs to import sugar now if it is to continue filling these export contracts, and may need to buy more. Last month London broker C Czarnikow estimated Turkish 1986/87 production at 1.42 mln tonnes raw value against 1.4 mln in 1985/86 and an average 1.76 mln in the previous three seasons. The semi-official Anatolian Agency recently quoted Turkish Minister of Industry and Trade Cahit Aral as saying Turkey would export 100,000 tonnes of sugar this year and import the same amount. REUTER 
GECC ISSUES 75 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR EUROBOND

General Electric Credit Corp is issuing a 75 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 16, 1990 paying 15 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The payment date is April 16. REUTER 
CADBURY REQUESTS STOCK EXCHANGE ENQUIRY

Cadbury-Schweppes Plc <CADB.L> said it had asked the London Stock Exchange to launch a formal enquiry into dealings in the company's shares in recent months. It said it believed such a move was in the best interests of shareholders following recent charges being made under U.K. Insider dealing laws about the shares. Last week, former <Morgan Grenfell Group Plc> executive Geoffrey Collier was charged with insider dealing in Cadbury shares. Collier resigned from the bank last year and was later charged with offences on deals in shares of AE Plc <AENG.L>. A Stock Exchange spokeswoman said she could give no specific details about the request. An investigation would be requested from the Exchange as it had access to the relevant dealing records. If it appeared that some offence had been committed details would be passed to the U.K. Trade Department, which had the power to bring charges under the Companies' Act. No spokesman for Cadbury was immediately available for comment. Reuter 
OPEC PRESIDENT SAYS OUTPUT WELL BELOW CEILING

Opec Conference President Rilwanu Lukman said the group was producing well below the 15.8 mln bpd ceiling it set in December, partly because liftings had been delayed or postponed by customers unwilling to pay fixed Opec prices. Lukman, during a brief visit to London on his way home from Jamaica, told Reuters in a telephone interview that in February, Opec had underproduced partly because members were strictly abiding by production quotas and partly because they were resisting the temptation to sell at discounts to official prices of around 18 dlrs a barrel. "We are determined to stand firm by the (December) accord," he said. "I have spoken to every other Opec minister and they are committed to making the accord work," he said. Lukman gave no specific figures for February output. He said the Opec secretariat in Vienna was finalizing these figures. Told of a Reuters survey published today which estimated that Opec output so far this week was below 15 mln bpd, he said; "That could well be correct." Opec"s news agency Opecna today issued a statement saying group output was "well below" its ceiling in February. But it gave no figures. But one source close to Opec indicated that February output may have been between 15.3 and 15.5 mln bpd. The Reuter survey estimated Opec February output at around 16 mln bpd. Opec agreed in December to cut output by 7.25 pct to 15.8 mln bpd and to return to fixed prices starting February 1. Lukman said Qatar, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Iran had all produced in February below their Opec quotas. Iraq, which said it would not honour its 1.466 mln bpd quota under the December pact, had produced less than had been anticipated, he said. Lukman said that some industry reports "may be correct" that in February, Nigeria propuced 75-100,000 bpd below its 1.238 mln bpd quota, Saudi Arabia 500,000 bpd less than its 4.133 mln allocation and Qatar 20 to 30 pct under its 285,000 bpd quota. He said that sweet crudes such as those produced by his country were coming under price pressure because they were currently officially priced above sweet North Sea grades and the United States" West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude. However, he said Opec in December had anticipated that demand would be slack at this time of year for seasonal reasons and expected the market to firm in two to three weeks. "We have to be patient for two or three weeks. The market is now firming on actual fundamentals," he said, adding that he expected it to go "up and up" even beyond official prices after early April. This is when, traditionally, there is more demand for gasoline-rich crudes such as Nigeria"s. The Opec President said producers such as Kuwait, Venezuela and Indonesia were having less problems with output than producers like his own country because they exported oil products. Also, some of Venezuela"s heavy grades were outside the Opec pricing system, he said. Lukman said that if refiner-buyers, now refusing to lift some Opec oil at official prices, instead used their own stocks and ran them down to "dangerous levels," they would eventually have to buy Opec oil. "When they realise it is not a free-for-all (in the market) they will realise they should buy now instead of paying more later on," he said. Lukman, asked about industry reports that Nigeria was being pressured by equity producers for better terms, said it was important to know that terms with them were negotiable, flexible and under constant review, not only when the market seemed weak. He said that so far, no meeting of the seven-nation ministerial differentials committee had been scheduled and that such a meeting, now twice-postponed, was not a high priority for Opec at the moment. "At this time, we have to get our priorities right," he said. "The most important thing now is ensuring that the accord is working, not dealing with a differential of cents between grades." But if any Opec member raised concerns or objections over the differential system, a meeting would be called, he said. Reuter 
BRAZIL'S FUNARO WINS FEW PROMISES ON EUROPE TRIP

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro last night concluded this week's tour of European capitals having gleaned little in the way of concrete support from governments for his country's attempts to find a radical solution to its debt payments crisis. However, banking sources noted the existence of considerable sympathy for Brazil's position among most of its commercial bank creditors, manifested in the widespread belief that adopting a hard line could only exacerbate the problems while patience might pave the way for an eventual reconciliation. Brazil on February 20 unilaterally suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dlr debt to commercial banks, followed by moves related to around 15 billion dlrs of bank and trade credit lines deposited by foreign banks and institutions. The action had been preceded by a significant deterioration in Brazil's balance of payments situation in the final quarter of 1986, along with a marked acceleration in inflation. Reserves had dipped to below four billion dlrs. Funaro and central bank president Francisco Gros last week visited Washington to explain Brazil's move to government officials and agencies. This week they have sought official support in the U.K., France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy. They have now decided to extend their tour, flying on Sunday to Tokyo to talk to government officials, with a possible visit to Canada before they return home. Funaro and Gros have so far confined their consultations to government representatives, believing that problems with Brazil's 109 billion dlr debt call for a political solution. However, banking sources noted that their attempts to enlist the support of European and U.S. Governments had been met almost unanimously with advice to talk first to banks. This counsel has been coupled with emphasis on the need for Brazil to present to creditors a convincing economic programme, with U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson also recommending an accord with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), advice which Funaro subsequently rejected flatly. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO 550 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage in the money market back to its initial forecast of 550 mln stg. At midsession the central bank changed the shortfall to 500 mln and provided assistance worth 96 mln stg through bank bill purchases in bands one and two at established dealing rates. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 350 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP

The Bank of England said it provided assistance worth 350 mln stg during the afternoon session which takes total help so far today to 446 mln stg against a shortage estimated at around 550 mln stg. The central bank purchased outright bank bills comprising 120 mln stg in band one at 10-7/8 pct and 227 mln stg in band two at 10-13/16 pct. It also bought treasury bills worth one mln stg in band one and two mln stg in band two at the same rates of interest as bank bills. REUTER 
U.K. OFFICIALS STUDY SALMONELLA/CALF FEED LINK

U.K. Officials are studying the possible link between the use of antibiotics in calf feeds and the spread of drug-resistant strains of salmonella in humans, a Ministry of Agriculture official said. A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine yesterday stated that the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol had been shown to be linked to farms that used the drug to promote the growth of cattle. The U.K. Ministry of Agriculture is working with the Department of Health and the Public Health Laboratory to investigate the whole subject of resistant strains of salmonella. "The Ministry of Agriculture is concerned about the possible effects on human and animal health," the official said. The government is also studying a recommendation from the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) to restrict the trade of calves under 56 days old through markets. The FAWC says this would help reduce the spread of salmonella. Reuter 
CBA NOVEL AUSTRALIAN DLR ISSUES UPPED TO 125 MLN

The Commonwealth Bank of Australia's 16 pct Australian dlr 101 pct bond issue of yesterday has been raised to a total of 125 mln Australian dlrs from 100 mln, lead manager Swiss Bank Corp International said. The coupon is valid for one year and will then be re-fixed annually at the one-year Australian Treasury rate. There will also be an investor put option annually at par REUTER 
STATE BANK OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA ISSUES NOVEL BOND

The State Bank of South Australia is issuing a novel 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 8, 1992 paying an initial coupon of 16-1/4 pct and priced at 101 pct, lead manager Swiss Bank Corp International said. The coupon will then be re-fixed annually at the one-year Australian Treasury rate. There will also be an investor put option annually at par. The selling concession is 3/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/8 pct. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by the state of South Australia and will be listed in Luxembourg. Denominations are 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs. Payment date is April 8. REUTER 
QUEBEC CAISSE DESJARDINS BRINGS EUROYEN BOND

La Caisse Centrale Desjardins Du Quebec is issuing a 10 billion yen eurobond due April 7, 1994 paying five pct and priced at 102-3/8 pct, Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said as joint book runner for the deal. Tokai International Ltd is other joint book runner. The bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
QUEBEC CAISSE DESJARDINS BRINGS EUROYEN BOND

La Caisse Centrale Desjardins Du Quebec is issuing a 10 billion yen eurobond due April 7, 1994 paying five pct and priced at 102-3/8 pct, Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said as joint book runner for the deal. Tokai International Ltd is other joint book runner. The bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Reuter 
DEN DANSKE LAUNCHES 200 MLN DLR EURO-CD PROGRAMME

Den Danske Bank of Denmark is raising 200 mln dlrs through a programme of short and medium term euro-certificates of deposit, arranger London-based Salomon Brothers International Ltd said in a statement received here. Signing takes place today and the first issuance, of maturities from seven days to five years, should take place later this month. Denominations would be 500,000 and one mln dlrs, and similar amounts in sterling and other currencies. Aside from the London branch of Den Danske and the arranger, other dealers in the programme would be the Swiss Bank Corp International and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. Salomon said the principal paying agent for the CDs would be Bankers Trust Co. Den Danske's U.S. Domestic commercial paper program is rated A1 by Standard and Poor's, and P-1 by Moody's rating agency, Salomon said. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND PRESSURE HOLDS BASE RATES

This week's Bank of England resistance to strong market pressure for lower interest rates succeeded in holding bank base rates at 11 pct. But at a cost of threatening the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's policy, stated at the end of the Paris Group of Six meeting last month, that he wanted to see sterling broadly stable about then prevailing levels, market sources said. Since then, the pound has risen to 71.8 pct on its closing trade-weighted index, up from 69.7 pct imediately after the Paris meeting and up 0.4 on the day. Today's peak at 72.0 pct was its highest since August 19. A Treasury spokesman said Lawson had said he neither wanted a substantial rise or fall in sterling. The question is therefore how large a rise he is ready to see before acting. Paul Temperton, chief economist at Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd, estimated that the government wanted to see the trade-weighted index about 72-73 pct. "Even after this action over the last few weeks, sterling's only just within striking distance of that range," he said. Other analysts agree that the government probably has some broad target range around this area. However, they said Lawson would be prepared to see the pound go higher at least in the short term, despite the risk of a loss of export competitiveness and cheaper prices on imports. "If the Bank of England keeps the interest rates as they are, what's to stop it (going higher)," said John Cox, executive director of EBC Amro Bank Ltd, a major operator on the London foreign exchange market. Cox estimates that the Bank of England has been active selling sterling over the past few days, despite the lack of general market talk of such intervention, and this has helped keep it below 1.60 dlrs. The pound rose to 1.5870 dlrs from 1.5764 yesterday and 1.5400 February 23, the day after the Paris meeting. But Cox says the government must be worried with sterling heading toward 2.95 marks and would be very concerned if it holds around these levels. He warned the Bank may run the risk of missing the interest rate boat. "If rates don't come down, the market will say they ought to have come down and will sell sterling," he said. Most dealers agree there is a good deal of "hot money" being invested in sterling, money simply attracted by high overnight or one-week rates, which could flow out at equally short notice. However, the authorities will hope that at least a proportion of the buying reflects long-term investment. "The last thing they want to do is reduce them (rates) and have to jack them back up again," said Richard Jeffrey, economist at brokerage house Hoare Govett Ltd. He said a half point cut would ensure continued support for sterling, at least in the near term. However, most analysts are still looking for a full point about March 17, Budget Day. The Bank must hold out until it sees the reaction to the Budget, said Temperton. The Budget is widely forecast to be a vote winner in the run-up to a general election, the major factor behind current bullishness in the government bond and currency markets. "Lawson wants to delay a cut in base rates until the budget. He wants it to be crowned with the glory of an interest rate cut," said Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, the equities arm of Mercury International Group. Speculation a clearing bank might break ranks and lead the way lower were confounded today. There was excitement a fall in the weekly Treasury Bill rate to 9.7 pct from 10.2 pct last Friday might mean the Bank had changed its mind. This followed the imposition of penal lending rates of 11 3/4 pct on the discount houses yesterday, and was the lowest since base rates were at 10 pct, early last October. However, with this Bill rate pertaining to three-months money, banking sources said the market could not take the cut as a guide to the Bank's intentions on short term rates. REUTER 
INDIA AGAIN IN MARKET FOR SUGAR - TRADE

India has called a fresh buying tender for up to four 13,000 tonne cargoes of white sugar on March 11, traders here said. The tender calls for one cargo of prompt sugar and two to three with March/April shipment sugar, or the same as the eight cargoes bought at a tender two days ago. That tender originally only sought two to three cargoes but resulted in the sale of eight. India also granted the sellers options to sell twice that amount at the same price but for April/May shipment. Depending on prices, traders said it would be likely for India again to buy more than the tonnage formally sought. Reuter 
LIFFE FEBRUARY VOLUMES DOWN, BUT EURODOLLARS UP

Total futures and options turnover on the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) fell slightly during February, although daily average Eurodollar volume set a new record, LIFFE said today. Total futures and options turnover last month was 822,378 contracts, down from January's 881,778, but sharply above the comparative February 1986 figure of 463,146 lots, it said. Eurodollar turnover during February was 140,417 lots, against January's 100,941 and the year ago figure of 81,648. The daily average was a record 7,020 lots, up four pct from the previous record, set in March 1985. February trading encompassed a new daily record of 66,087 contracts on the 19th of the month, exceeding the previous record of 61,398, which had been set on February 6, LIFFE said. FT-SE 100 index futures volume was sharply higher during February, with 22,109 contracts trading, against January's 15,279 and the year-ago level of 8,181. Open interest also set new records last month in Eurodollars at 29,372 contracts, in FT-SE 100 at 4,898 and in short sterling interest rate futures at 19,846 lots. Key futures volumes as detailed by LIFFE were: Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Long gilt 424,865 525,354 134,420 Eurodollar 140,417 100,941 81,648 Short sterling 94,720 87,619 67,640 T-bond 84,694 87,980 133,766 FT-SE 22,109 15,279 8,181 Currencies 2,799 2,112 7,737 Short gilt 74 85 6,516 Key options volumes as detailed by LIFFE were: Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Long gilt 44,640 54,329 ---- Eurodollar 3,580 1,720 2,844 T-bond 1,737 3,479 ---- Sterling 1,466 2,223 18,191 FT-SE 1,277 657 ---- Total options 52,700 62,408 23,238 (Long gilt, T-bond and FT-SE index options were not trading in February 1986). Reuter 
CHANNEL FERRY REPORTED SINKING OFF BELGIUM

The channel ferry Herald of Free Enterprise from the British Townsend Thorensen company was sinking off the Belgian coast tonight with 463 people on board, the Dutch newsagency ANP reported today. An unspecified number of people had fallen into the water, it said, quoting the pilot organisation in this south-western Dutch port city near the Belgian border. It said the vessel had capsized after a collision but gave no more details. Dan Kaakebeen a spokesman for the Dutch salvage firm Smit International told Reuters by telephone from Rotterdam that the vessel was just off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge with 463 passengers and crew when the accident occurred at 1850 GMT. Kaakebeen said the firm had one vessel at the scene and another on its way with divers on board. A spokesman at the port authority of nearby Vlissingen said attempts were being made to pull the vessel into shallow waters. Weather conditions were good with no fog or wind, and there were many other vessels in the area. Reuter 
TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE RESCUED FROM SINKING FERRY

About 200 people were rescued, some badly hurt, from a sinking cross Channel ferry carrying approximately 540 people off the Belgian port of Zeebrugge, a port control spokesman said. The spokesman, contacted by telephone, said only one third of car ferry, the Herald of Free Enterprise owned by the British company Townsend Thoresen, remained above water. Divers have been sent down to try to rescue passengers believed trapped in the ferry, which was on its way from Zeebrugge to the English port of Dover and capsized just off the pier, he added Reuter 
AMIR MINES COMPLETES PRIVATE PLACEMENT

<Amir Mines Ltd> said it completed negotiations on a private placement with institutional investors in the United Kingdom, Europe and Canada. The placement will consist of one mln shares of Amir Mines at 2.90 Canadian dlrs per share. In London, Continental Carlisle Douglas Securities and Yorkton Securities acted as agents for the placement of 900,000 shares in the U.K. and Europe. The additional 100,000 shares will be purchased by two Canadian gold funds. Amir said proceeds will be used for the acquisition of or joint venture participation in, properties with the potential for low-cost heap leach gold, regional gold exploration in the western U.S. or general working capital. Reuter 
26 REPORTED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER

At least 26 people died when a car ferry struck a pier as it left Belgium for Britain, a nurse who took part in the rescue operation said. Jan Van Moerbeke, a male nurse, said on coming off the Herald of Free Enterprise that he had found six people on top of the vessel who were dead. There were at least another 20 dead inside the boat, he added. The governor of West Flanders province said 240 people were still unaccounted for. Reuter 
TWO HUNDRED FEARED DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER

About 200 people are feared dead after a British cross-channel ferry rolled on its side off the Belgian coast last night -- but almost 350 passengers were plucked to safety from the ice-cold sea. Belgian Transport Minister Herman de Croo told reporters: "I fear the dead could be in hundreds, perhaps 200. Given the state of the water, I fear there is no hope." Townsend Thorensen, owners of the 7,951 tonne Herald of Free Enterprise, said the ferry was carrying 543 people and that 345 had been rescued. All but one were British. REUTER 
FERRY DISASTER MAY RANK AMONG WORST TRAGEDIES

Fading hope for passengers trapped aboard a partially-sunk Channel ferry raised fears the accident could rank among this centuries' worst peacetime shipping tragedies. Belgian Transport Minister Herman de Croo said there was no hope of rescuing any of about 220 passengers trapped in the Herald of Free Enterprise after it capsized off the Belgian coast last night. If confirmed, the toll would make the incident the world's worst since a Soviet liner, the Admiral Nakhimov, collided with a freighter in the Black Sea last September and sank with the loss of nearly 400 lives. A further 856 people were rescued. The world's deadliest single peacetime incident at sea was the sinking in 1912 of the Titanic with a loss of 1,500 lives. The second biggest loss of life in peacetime was in 1914 when 1,014 people drowned when the liner Empress of Ireland collided with a freighter on the St Lawrence river in Canada. The world's worst maritime disaster was in wartime that took 7,700 lives when the German liner Wilhelm Gustloff was torpedoed by a Soviet submarine in January 30, 1945. In 1985, more than 200 were feared dead after two ferries sank near Dhaka, 174 drowned when a ferry capsized in China and 147 died when a launch sank off the Malaysian state of Sabah. REUTER 
ALMOST 200 DEAD IN FERRY DISASTER

There are no more survivors from a British cross-Channel ferry disaster off the Belgian coast and almost 200 people seem certain to have perished, a senior Belgian official said. Jacques Thas, in charge of rescue for the Herald of Free Enterprise, said his men had searched all of the ship except some inaccessible cabins and the control room. "I am afraid there are no more survivors," he said. Thas said 32 of the 543 passsengers and crew were confirmed dead and 160 were missing, bringing the total of dead or presumed dead to 192. REUTER 
EXPERTS HAD EXPRESSED FEARS OVER RO-RO SAFETY

As a British government investigation got under way into the sinking of the car ferry Herald of Free Enterprise with heavy loss of life, experts said doubts had already been expressed about the roll-on roll-off type of ship. Shipping minister Lord Brabazon said a preliminary investigation had started into why the 7,951 tonne ferry capsized and sank in little over a minute as it manoeuvred to leave Zeebrugge on a routine four hour crossing to Dover. Initial reports spoke of water flooding the car decks through the bow doors. But a spokesman for the owners, Townsend Thoresen, said it was also possible the ferry had been holed. Townsend Thoresen operate two other ships identical to the Herald of Free Enterprise, but Brabazon said it was not planned to pull them out of service at present. "Our investigator is there already. We shall have to wait and see. But it is too early to say what happened," he told BBC radio. As the work of retrieving bodies from the half-submerged hulk continued, maritime safety experts in London said doubts had already been expressed about the design of so-called "RoRo" ferries such as the Herald of Free Enterprise. In 1980 the Inter-Governmental International Maritime Consultative Committee issued a report saying more roll-on roll-off vessels were lost in accidents than ships with deck areas divided by bulkheads. Townsend Thoresen say the ship, built at the West German yard of Bremerhaven in 1980, was built to the highest safety standards. But salvage expert William Cooper said passengers would have had problems getting off this type of ship because of its design. Former Townsend Thoresen navigating officer Clive Langley said the RoRo type of vessels were similar in some respects to a barge. "As any sailor knows it only takes two or three inches out of line and you can turn a barge over. An ordinary ship is compartmentalised and you have more stability," he said. Cooper said cross-Channel ferries were normally perfectly stable but had huge wide deck areas above the water level. "If you do get water into that area then you can get very severe effects on the stability of the ship," he added. REUTER 
UNION BANK OF FINLAND ISSUES EUROYEN BOND

Union Bank of Finland is issuing a 10 billion yen eurobond due March 30, 1992 paying five pct and priced at 102-3/8 pct, lead manager LTCB International Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date is March 30. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
UNILEVER UNIT ISSUES 40 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Unilever Australia Ltd is issuing 40 mln Australian dlrs of bonds due April 14, 1990 carrying a coupon of 14-3/4 pct and priced at 101-1/2, said County NatWest Capital Markets as lead manager. The bonds are guaranteed by Unilever PLc whose outstanding debt securities are rated AAA. The bonds are non-callable and will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. The securities will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Fees are a one pct selling concession and 1/2 pct combined management and underwriting. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 250 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 250 mln stg in the money market today. Among the factors affecting liquidity, it said bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain around 1.02 billion stg while below target bankers' balances would take out a further 140 mln. Against this, a fall in the note circulation would add 345 mln stg and the net effect of exchequer transactions would be an inflow of some 545 mln stg, the Bank added. REUTER 
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK CUTS BASE RATE

National Westminster Bank Plc said it has cut its base lending rate 0.5 percentage points to 10.5 pct today. National Westminster said that it was responding to general easing in money market rates. Its move followed a signal from the Bank of England earlier this afternoon that it would endorse a half point cut in the base rate, a surprise move following its strong signals last week that such a move would be premature. However, since then the pound has continued to gain strongly. REUTER 
U.K. CREDIT BUSINESS FALLS IN JANUARY

New credit advanced by finance houses, retailers, bank credit cards and other specialist providers of credit slipped to 2.66 billion stg in January from 2.78 billion in December - but remained close to the average level for 1986's fourth quarter, the Department of Trade and Industry said. Of the January total, 1.15 billion stg was advanced on bank credit cards. On a three-month basis, total advances in November to January were 3.0 pct lower than in the previous three months. Within this total, lending to consumers fell by 6.0 pct and lending to businesses declined by 5.0 pct. At end-January 1987, the total amount outstanding was 24.07 billion stg, up from December's 23.77 billion stg and 3.0 pct above the total three months earlier, the department said. January saw a rise of 300 mln stg in amounts outstanding to finance houses, other specialist credit grantors and retailers. The department said advances on credit cards rose by 1.0 pct between the latest two three-month periods. Retailers advanced 3.0 pct less in the latest three months than in the previous three months, it said. REUTER 
PLESSEY TO SELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM TO COLOMBIA

Plessey Co Plc <PLY.L> said it had won a multi-million stg contract to supply Colombia with the System X digital telephone exchange, the first major export contract for the system. Company sources said the deal was worth about 15 mln stg. v A Plessey statement said the contract, awarded by the National Telecommunications Authority of Colombia, was won against competition from Telefon L M Ericsson AB, NEC Corp, Fujitsu Ltd and Italtel of Italy. "The award is regarded as a triumph for System X and a breakthrough in the South American market," it said. Plessey said the contract was one of the largest awarded by Telecom Colombia for the past 10 years and involved supplying 13 telephone exchanges including 68,000 lines. The award also includes transmission equipment for the interconnection of the exchanges and the existing system. The firm was actively marketing System X worldwide and contract negotiations in certain countries had reached an advanced stage, it said. Plessey shares were down 5p at 235p, having gone ex-dividend. REUTER 
NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK CUTS BASE RATE

National Westminster Bank Plc said it has cut its base lending rate 0.5 percentage points to 10.5 pct today. National Westminster said it was responding to general easing in money market rates. Its move followed a signal from the Bank of England earlier this afternoon that it would endorse a half point cut in the base rate, a surprise move following its strong signals last week that such a move would be premature. However, since then the pound has continued to gain strongly. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER HELP AT NEW RATES

The Bank of England said it provided the market with further assistance during the afternoon, buying bills worth 166 mln stg at the lower rates introduced this morning. It bought 45 mln stg of local authority bills plus 27 mln stg of bank bills in band one at 10-3/8 pct together with 94 mln stg of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct. The bank also revised its estimate of the market shortage up to 300 mln stg from 250 mln this morning. It has given total assistance of 213 mln stg today. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP WORTH 15 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it provided the market with unspecified late assistance worth 15 mln stg. It has given the market total assistance of 228 mln stg today compared with a liquidity shortage it estimated at a revised 300 mln stg. REUTER 
U.K. AGRICULTURAL FUTURES MARKETS TO MERGE

Three London markets which trade potato, soymeal and meat futures said they will merge to form a new Agricultural Futures Exchange. Legal advisers have been instructed to implement the amalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, LPFA, the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, and the Grain and Feed Trade Association's, GAFTA, Soya Bean Meal Futures Association, SOMFA. No timetable was given. Members of the three exchanges have been consulted, Agricultural Futures Exchange secretary Bill Englebright told Reuters, and no objections have been raised to the merger. Three markets are involved at present but the new exchange could ultimately combine five markets. Discussions are taking place with the Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange, BIFFEX, and the GAFTA London Grain Futures Market is considering the possibility of joining the other markets, market officials said. The BIFFEX board is expected to reach a decision on the merger at its meeting at the end of this month, after members are consulted at a meeting on March 16. The grain futures market also intends to consult its members soon, GAFTA director general James Mackie said. The aim of the amalgamation is to limit regulatory and administrative costs and achieve the recognition required under the 1986 Financial Services Act. This legislation requires a futures market to become a Recognised Investment Exchange, RIE, for trading to continue. Representatives of all the futures markets on the Baltic Exchange have been discussing the possibility of a single RIE structure since the beginning of the year. The new exchange now planned will apply to the Securities and Investments Board for recognition as an RIE "at the appropriate time," the Agricultural Futures Exchange said. "This commitment by the markets will enable progress to be made to develop a stronger and more effective exchange to the benefit of all those involved in the industry," the chairman of the formation committee, Pat Elmer, said. The merged markets will remain at the Baltic Exchange. Reuter 
BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT

Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lending rates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar move by National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> The rate changes take effect tomorrow. REUTER 
 Bank of England says issuing further one billion stg 8-3/4 pct bonds due 1997



BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT

Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lending rates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar move by National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> The rate changes take effect tomorrow. The base rate reductions came after the Bank of England cut its dealing rates this morning in a signal to the money markets that it would not resist a half percentage point drop in bank base lending rates, market sources said. Until the end of last week, the central was holding out staunchly against market pressures for lower rates in an apparent effort to preserve the expected rate cuts for around the time of the government's annual Budget on March 17. Sterling remained firm around 1.59 dlrs compared with its close here on Friday at 1.5865 dlrs. REUTER 
U.K. ISSUES ONE BILLION STG BOND TRANCHE

The Bank of England said it was taking onto its books a further one billion stg tranche of 8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan stock due 1997, payable 40 stg pct on application. The stock was issued to the Bank at 96.50 stg pct and will be available for dealings from March 11, with the remainder of the amount payable on May 5. The Bank said the bonds would yield 9.28 pct at the issue price and would be free of tax to residents overseas. The issue would be designated 8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan 1997 "B." A further 100 mln stg was reserved for the National Debt Commissioners. The market dropped by up to 1/2 point following the Bank's announcement, with the Treasury 13-1/2 pct stock due 2004/08 quoted one full point lower at 134-12/32 stg pct around 20 minutes after the news. Dealers said the announcement had to be viewed against the backdrop of intense pressure for lower U.K. Interest rates which had built up over the past two weeks as a result of sterling's strength. The Bank this morning finally signalled it was prepared to see lower rates and U.K. Clearing banks this afternoon announced cuts in their base lending rates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The Bank had initially been reluctant to countenance a rate cut because, dealers said, the authorities had wished to delay a reduction until around the time of the U.K. Budget on March 17, thereby preserving the full impact of Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's package of measures. However, in the face of sterling's apparently inexorable climb, the authorities today decided to cede to pressure and allow a half-point cut. Today's one billion stg tap issue was viewed by the market as a move by the Bank to eradicate hopes for a further early rate cut which might arise as a result of strong sterling. Most market participants believe that Lawson will now foster a further half point interest rate reduction at the time of the budget, although one or two said they would not be surprised to see a full point decline at this stage. Dealers noted that as part of the authorities' attempts last week to ease pressure for lower rates, the Bank had issued a one billion stg tap stock with a view to subduing the Government bond market. To the surprise of most participants, the issue was sold out within hours of becoming available for trading and the market pushed on to register further sharp gains. Dealers said that at this stage it seemed unlikely that the issue announced today would be absorbed by the market as rapidly as last week's. However, they noted that although sterling had edged down from its highs following the base rate cut, it had still closed on a trade-weighted basis at 72.4, well ahead of Friday's final 71.8 and only just beneath the peak of 72.5 touched at 1300 GMT. REUTER 
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN ISSUES 100 MLN STG BOND

Kingdom of Sweden is issuing a 100 mln stg bond due April 15, 1997 carrying a coupon of 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4, said Baring Brothers and Co Ltd as lead manager. The issue is payable on April 15, 1987. The bond is callable after seven years at 100-1/8 pct and it will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Fees are a 1-3/8 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
BARCLAYS, MIDLAND FOLLOW NATWEST BASE RATE CUT

Barclays Bank Plc <BCS.L> and Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said they are cutting their base lending rates to 10.5 pct from 11 pct. The cuts follow a similar move by National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> The rate changes take effect tomorrow. The base rate reductions came after the Bank of England cut its dealing rates this morning in a signal to the money markets that it would not resist a half percentage point drop in bank base lending rates, market sources said. Until the end of last week, the central was holding out staunchly against market pressures for lower rates in an apparent effort to preserve the expected rate cuts for around the time of the government's annual Budget on March 17. Sterling remained firm around 1.59 dlrs compared with its close here on Friday at 1.5865 dlrs. Reuter 
LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT

Lloyds Bank Plc <LLOY.L> said it is cutting its base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, effective tomorrow. The reduction follows similar moves from the three other British clearing banks. National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> led the way this morning after the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates in a signal that it would tolerate a half percentage point reduction. The central bank's surprise signal followed its strenuous efforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing down base rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. REUTER 
BURTON GROUP ADRS START TRADING TODAY

The Burton Group Plc <BRTO.L> said trading will commence in the U.S. In Burton Group American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). Burton said it expected the ADRs to increase significantly the North American demand for Burton's shares. A programme to promote the ADRs with presentations in the U.S. Is due soon. Burton shares here were 6p firmer at 306p. Reuter 
LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT

Lloyds Bank Plc <LLOY.L> said it is cutting its base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, effective tomorrow. The reduction follows similar moves from the three other British clearing banks. National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> led the way this morning after the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates in a signal that it would tolerate a half percentage point reduction. The central bank's surprise signal followed its strenuous efforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing down base rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. Reuter 
LLOYDS BANK MATCHES BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT

Lloyds Bank Plc said it is cutting its base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, effective tomorrow. The reduction follows similar moves from the three other British clearing banks. National Westminster Bank Plc led the way this morning after the Bank of England lowered its dealing rates in a signal that it would tolerate a half percentage point reduction. The central bank's surprise signal followed its strenuous efforts last week to prevent market forces from bringing down base rates before the U.K. Budget on March 17. Reuter 
UK MONEY RATES FALL AS BANK APPROVES BASE RATE CUT

A half point cut in base lending rates was announced by the big four clearing banks today after the Bank of England finally endorsed such a move following weeks of downward pressure, dealers said. During its routine intervention in the market, the bank trimmed the rates at which it deals with the discount houses by half a point and National Westminster led the other clearing banks in reducing its base rate to 10-1/2 pct from 11 pct. The timing of the Bank of England move took operators by surprise after its recent action seemingly designed to dampen hopes of a base rate cut ahead of the U.K. Budget on March 17. For some time, fundamentals have led the market to push for a one point cut in base lending rates to 10 pct but the central bank has declined to follow wholesale money market rates down. Although political considerations -- the government's wish to see a fall in base rates coincide with the Budget -- had been suggested by operators last week as reasons for the Bank's delaying action, worries about the real strength of sterling and perhaps about the market's reaction to the content of the Budget may have been behind the central bank's caution, dealers said. In the event, sterling continued firm after the rate cut, leaving the market still looking for another half point fall. Consequently, rates in the money market eased during the day, one-month interbank sterling shedding 5/16 point to 10-9/16 7/16 and three-months trading 1/16 point down at 10-5/16 3/16 pct. Sterling cd's were similarly down between 5/16 point in one month and 1/8 point in one year. Overnight interbank money for tomorrow was indicated at around 11 pct, almost a point below the levels ruling at the end of last week. Today, overnight touched a high of some 11-3/4 pct after the Bank took out 228 mln stg of an estimated 300 mln stg shortage. REUTER 
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN ISSUES 100 MLN STG BOND

Kingdom of Sweden is issuing a 100 mln stg bond due April 15, 1997 carrying a coupon of 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4, Baring Brothers and Co Ltd said as lead manager. The issue is payable on April 15, 1987. The bonds are callable after seven years at 100-1/8 pct and it will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Fees are a 1-3/8 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting. REUTER 
ROLLS ROYCE SEEKS 250 MLN STG CREDIT FACILITY

Rolls Royce, the U.K.'s state-owned car and aircraft engine maker, is seeking a 250 mln stg multiple option facility to provide it with additional sources of financing, banking sources said. They said the facility, which will be syndicated among a small group of the borrower's relationship banks, is being put in place ahead of the privatisation of Rolls Royce in April or May. At the borrower's request, terms will not be disclosed until later this week, when bankers expect the syndication to close. But while the terms are in line with the market, they are somewhat tight, bankers said. The bankers noted that although Rolls Royce's debt will be negligible after privatisation it wants to have a range of financing arrangements available to allow it to take advantage of market opportunities when they become available. The financing will involve a 150 mln stg five-year committed tranche and will be backed by an uncommitted tender panel through which Rolls Royce will be able to issue bills or multi-currency advances. S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd is arranger for the financing, the bankers said. REUTER 
ROLLS ROYCE SEEKS 250 MLN STG CREDIT FACILITY

Rolls Royce, the U.K.'s state-owned car and aircraft engine maker, is seeking a 250 mln stg multiple option facility to provide it with additional sources of financing, banking sources said. They said the facility, which will be syndicated among a small group of the borrower's relationship banks, is being put in place ahead of the privatisation of Rolls Royce in April or May. At the borrower's request, terms will not be disclosed until later this week, when bankers expect the syndication to close. But while the terms are in line with the market, they are somewhat tight, bankers said. Reuter 
FERRY DISASTER CLAIMS COULD TOP 30 MLN STG

U.K. Insurers could face more than 30 mln stg of insurance claims following the Zeebrugge ferry disaster, a spokesman for Lloyds of London said. It could take weeks before the extent of the compensation claims for passengers, crew and cargo was known and also before it was known how much, if any, of the ship could be salvaged, said David Larner of Lloyds. The hull and machinery of the Herald of Free Enterprise were valued at 25 mln stg and were insured by Townsend Thoresen's parent company Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Co Plc <PORL.L>. The vessel was in turn reinsured in the London market with Lloyds and various other companies, Larner said. Passengers, crew and cargo were insured by the Standard Steamship Protection and Indemnity Association, one of several shipowners' mutual insurance funds worldwide. These were also underwritten by Lloyds and other companies. Larner said claims from passengers could be expected to total at least five mln stg, given the number of deaths and the normal level of liability set by the Athens Convention of 1974 of between 30,000 stg and 50,000 in case of death. Shipping sources said, however, that these claims could soar if a court found there was negligence or design faults involved. Larner said estimates of compensation claims "were pure guess work" at this time. But if the ship could not be salvaged, the claims would total at least 30 mln stg. Shares of insurances on the London stock exchange fell across the board in a generally weak market. General Accident fell 21p to 936, Royal Insurance dropped 18p to 966 and Prudential fell 9p to 888. P and O shares stood at a late 616, 27p lower on the day. REUTER 
CITIBANK FOLLOWS U.K. BASE RATE CUT TO 10.5 PCT

<Citibank NA> said it has cut its British base lending rate to 10.5 pct from 11 pct, with effect from tomorrow. This move follows similar cuts by four major British clearing banks, led by National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>. Lower rates were signalled by the Bank of England this morning in an attempt to curb recent upward pressure on the pound, market sources said. REUTER 
VNESHTORGBANK SEEKS INCREASE FOR FACILITY

Vneshtorgbank, the Soviet Foreign Trade bank, is seeking an increase to 250 mln stg from the original 150 mln for a five year, sterling bankers' acceptance facility arranged last autumn, Lloyds Merchant Bank Ltd said as arranger. The facility has a 10 basis point facility fee and there is a 15 basis point maximum cap on the margin. Banking sources said syndication for the increase was proceeding very well so far, although the syndication would not necessarily be confined to banks participating in the original group. Banking sources said that one reason for the increase was that Vneshtorgbank had been very impressed by the relatively low cost of financing by means of eligible bills, rather than through more traditional instruments priced in relation to London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR). The facility is Vneshtorgbank's first ever sterling-denominated bankers' acceptance facility. Banking sources noted that Vneshtorgbank now has two facilities in the market, since First Chicago Ltd was awarded a mandate last week to arrange a 200 mln dlr, eight year loan at 1/8 point over LIBOR. Reuter 
BRITISH AIRPORTS AUTHORITY SEEKS CREDIT FACILITY

<British Airports Authority Plc>, which will be privatised later this year, is seeking a 200 mln stg multiple option facility, banking sources said. The facility will incorporate a 100 mln stg revolving standby credit and a 50 mln stg swingline credit, both of which will be available for seven years. There also will be an uncommitted tender panel for the issue of sterling and multi-currency advances and sterling acceptances. A minimum of 65 pct of the revolving credit will be immediately available, with a facility fee of six basis points. Up to 35 pct of the revolving credit will be available subject to two months notification. There will be a facility fee of three basis points while this is not utilised, after which the fee rises to six basis points. Drawings will be at 10 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate, plus mandatory liquid asset requirements, or a 10 basis point sterling acceptance commission. The swingline will be available for a maximum of seven days. There will also be a participation fee of five basis points for 12.5 mln stg. The financing is being arranged by Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd and is being syndicated on a restricted basis among a group of the borrower's relationship banks. REUTER 
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHTS

wheat Ria Luna 20,000 mt Norrkoping and Djuron/EC Mexico 12.50 dlrs option loading Uddevalla at 50 cents less 4,000/1,500 16-23/3 Continental. Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of March 6, brokers say the charterer of the Saturn from US Gulf to Japan is reported to be Nordstrom and Thulin, while the Antigone is reported to have been arranged from Tilbury to the Black Sea by Soviet charterers. Reuter 
ITALY SHOWS INTEREST IN U.K. NEW CROP WHEAT

Italy has shown interest in British new crop wheat recently but the actual volume booked so far by Italian buyers has not been large, traders said. They put purchases at around 50,000 tonnes for Sept/Dec shipments but said some of the business was transacted at the start of the year. Italian interior home markets have been active in recent weeks and traders said around 200,000 tonnes have traded between dealers and home consumers. Some of this has been covered in the market here and more possibly will be, traders said. Reuter 
LMFE TO CONCENTRATE ON CASH SETTLED CONTRACTS

The London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, will cease trading in its deliverable pigmeat contract from April 3, the LMFE said. The move will enable the exchange to concentrate on the cash settled contracts introduced last year. "This allows the exchange and its members to concentrate our marketing on the pig and live cattle contracts," LMFE official Peter Freeman said. "These two have already shown their effectiveness for hedging, and the trade in both contracts is increasing," he added. "Using the futures market allows better planning and forward price fixing that our industry needs," chairman Pat Elmer said. Some 131 pig contracts were settled against the Meat and Livestock Commission's Average All Pigs Price in February, which represents hedging for over 13,000 pigs, more than twice the number cash-settled in January, the LMFE said. Cash settlement on the new cattle and pig contracts was introduced last June in the expectation that the appeal of the futures market to farmers, abattoirs and users of meat would increase because of the absence of a delivery requirement. Reuter 
PRIMARY EUROSTERLING MARKET BOOMS DESPITE RATE CUT

Two new eurosterling bonds were launched today, making a total of 10 new deals in the sector so far this month, as borrowers rush to cash in on a bull sterling market fueled by the strength of the pound and pre-budget euphoria. The Bank of England finally gave way to a 1/2 point cut in banks' base lending rates earlier today, but dealers said this had been largely discounted and was not likely to detract from the current popularity of sterling-denominated investments. "Sterling, in any shape or form, is flavor of the month and we're set to see many more eurosterling deals," one dealer said. Today's new eurosterling bonds were a 10-year, 100 mln stg deal for Sweden at 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead by Baring Brothers and Co Ltd and a 14 year 60 mln stg convertible deal for Storehouse Plc launched by SBCI International Ltd. "We thought we saw a proverbial flood of new deals with the 14 we had last month but it seems March will beat February hands down with 10 already," one eurosterling specialist said. "Optically, psychologically, these single figures are much more attractive for the borrower. Eurosterling looks like a cheap and attractive way to raise your money," he added. This accounts for the wide variety of borrowers who have tapped the sector recently, ranging from sovereigns such as the Kingdom of Sweden today, continental banks including Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank and British corporations. Another U.K. Merchant bank analyst noted that the current vogue for eurosterling enabled several corporate borrowers last month to offer paper priced below comparative gilt yields. A Storehouse official confirmed that the issue was aimed at Swiss and German investors who were showing good interest. This is the first entry into the long term international capital markets by Storehouse, British designer Terence Conran's retail conglomerate which incorporates U.K. Chain stores Mothercare, British Home Stores and Habitat. "We have been considering the move for quite some time now and the current strength of the eurosterling sector provided the perfect opportunity and spur for us to finally tap the market," Lance Moir, corporate treasurer at Storehouse Plc told Reuters. 
EUROPE SHIPPING EXPORTS TO S AFRICA OFF 40 PCT

The volume of European exports to South Africa carried by container line vessels has declined 40 pct in the last two years, British shipping executive Antony Butterwick said. Butterwick told reporters that despite the drop and low freight rates, the shipping conference he heads will increase the frequency of sailings to South Africa as a "very strong act of faith and confidence" in the country's future. He is chairman of the Europe South and South-East African Conference Lines and joint managing director of P and O Containers Ltd. A statement issued by the conference here said frequency of Southern Africa/Europe container service sailings is being increased from nine to seven days. "This is the most positive development on the shipping front between South Africa and its main trading partners in Europe for more than four years, when the service last operated weekly," it said. Reuter 
NEW AGENCY TO GIVE CREDIT RATINGS ON EUROBONDS

A newly formed credit rating agency based in London, EuroRatings Ltd, said it will begin providing evaluations of the quality of eurobond offerings including the first-ever ratings of some of the U.K. And Irish clearing banks. The agency said that already, it has published ratings on 90 issues of 45 euromarket issuers. Among the bank issues never rated publicly are long-term debt securities of LLoyd's Bank PLC Allied Irish Banks, Bank of Ireland and Bank of Scotland. Shareholders in the new firm are Fitch Investors Service inc, a U.S.-based rating agency and Compagnie Belge D'Assurance- Credit S.A., A credit insurance firm, which is a subsidiary of Societe Generale de Belgique. Reuter 
LCE AND IPE ELECT FIRST TRADED OPTIONS MEMBERS

The first 23 members have been elected to the joint traded options facility of the London Commodity Exchange (LCE) and the International Petroleum exchange (IPE), the exchanges said in a statement. More firms have applied and the final tranche will be admitted on April one and trading is planned to start in early June on the new trading floor on Commodity Quay. Traded options need a volatile and liquid futures base to succeed and chairman of the joint formation committee Jack Patterson said the existing LCE cocoa, coffee, sugar and IPE gas oil contracts should have no difficulty in providing this. Reuter 
BANK OF IRELAND SEEKS 300 MLN STG CD FACILITY

Bank of Ireland said it has mandated Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd (BZW) to arrange a 300 mln stg committed certificate of deposit issuance facility. The facility will be used to fund Bank of Ireland's new U.K. Home mortgage subsidiary, BankAmerica Finance Ltd, which will be renamed shortly. The certificates will be sold through an uncommitted tender panel but the facility will be fully underwritten for five years by a syndicate of banks formed by BZW. Four banks-- Barclays Bank Plc, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Lloyds Bank Plc and Standard Chartered Bank-- have agreed to underwrite the credit in a pre-syndication agreement and will act as lead managers in syndication, due to begin soon. Bank of Ireland also said it has appointed BZW as sole dealer on a separate 100 mln stg certificate of deposit program. Reuter 
IRAN CLAIMS 3,000 IRAQI CASUALTIES IN FIGHTING

An Iranian military commander said Iraqi troops suffered 3,000 casualties in a week-old offensive by Iran's forces in the mountains of northeast Iraq. The Iranian news agency IRNA quoted the commander in the Kurdish border village of Haj Omran as saying nine Iraqi counter-attacks had been repulsed with heavy casualties. He said Iraq lost at least 3,000 men killed or wounded and another 289 captured, IRNA, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp, said. Iran's offensive into Iraqi Kurdistan is coupled with support for anti-Iraqi Kurdish rebel operations in the region. REUTER 
 U.K. One billion stg tranche of 8-3/4 pct Treasury bonds due 1997 exhausted - dealers



U.K. ONE BILLION STG BOND TRANCHE EXHAUSTED

A one billion stg tranche of 8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan stock due 1997 was exhausted in very early trading on the U.K. Government bond market only minutes after becoming available for trading, dealers said. The Bank of England said the issue, announced on Monday and available for official dealings from this morning, was no longer operating as a tap. The striking price was a partly paid 41 stg pct, at which price bids were allotted 53.8 pct. Dealers noted that strong demand had been detected for the bonds yesterday afternoon and interest was further stimulated by sterling's surge at the opening this morning. The issue was announced on Monday, when it was widely seen as a move by the authorities to brake market optimism for a further U.K. Interest rate reduction following the half-point cut in clearing bank base lending rates to 10.5 pct earlier in the day. Dealers said that the Bank's strategy succeeded in stemming pressure for a further rate reduction only briefly, as the market yesterday recovered all the ground it lost on Monday immediately after the announcement. Demand for the issue was lively from U.K. And overseas sources, with particular interest seen from Japan. The bonds were issued at a price of 96-16/32 stg pct, partly paid as to 40 stg pct on application, although the Government broker this morning sold them at a premium of one stg pct over the partly paid issue price. The issue has been designated the "B" tranche of the bonds, since 1.3 billion stg of 8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan stock due 1997 is already in issue. Dealers noted that the Bank of England last week issued one billion stg of nine pct Exchequer bonds due 2002 in an effort to dampen enthusiasm for an interest rate reduction caused by sterling's uptrend on foreign exchange markets. Last week's issue was sold out on its first day of dealings but with nothing resembling the determined demand seen this morning for the new tranche of bonds, dealers said. After stifling pressure for a rate cut last week, the authorities finally sanctioned a base rate reduction on Monday, following it up with the announcement of the one billion stg bond issue. Sterling was briefly depressed by the rate cut but this morning opened very strongly again, starting on a trade-weighted basis at 72.6 against yesterday's final 72.1 and later edging up to 72.7. U.K. Money market rates declined again this morning by up to 1/8 point, strongly reinforcing yesterday's speculation that clearing bank base lending rates could drop into single figures after the budget next Tuesday, money market dealers said. U.K. Government bond dealers noted that under the influence of stronger sterling and the further fall in money market rates, prices this morning had opened as much as 3/4 point higher at the longer end of the market. REUTER 
NORSK HYDRO ISSUES 50 MLN STG BONDS

Norsk Hydro A/S <NHY.O> is issuing 50 mln stg bonds due April 15, 1993 carrying a 9-7/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-5/8, said Hambros Bank Ltd as lead manager. Norsk Hydro is 51 pct owned by the Kingdom of Norway. The bonds, which are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Payment date is April 15. Fees consist of a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting. REUITER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a liquidity shortage of around 300 mln stg in the market today. Among the main factors, the Bank said bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 483 mln stg from the system while below target bankers' balances and a rise in the note circulation would take out 50 mln and 100 mln stg respectively. Partially offsetting these, exchequer transactions would add around 355 mln stg, the Bank added. REUTER 
GENENTECH SETS 100 MLN DLRS OF CONVERTIBLE BONDS

Genetech Inc <GENE.O> is issuing a 100 mln dlr convertible bond due March 30, 2002 with an indicated coupon of five to 5-1/2 pct and an issue price of par, Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) said as lead manager. Genentech's stock closed at 58-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange last night. CSFB said final terms, to be set around March 12, anticipate a conversion premium of 20 to 25 pct. The securities will be available in bearer or registered form in denominations of 5,000 dlrs each. The deal is callable immediately at 106 for the first three years, declining by one pct per year each year thereafter. However, if the stock price rises to more than 130 pct of the conversion level, the issue will be callable immediately, CSFB said. PaineWebber is co-lead manager. Fees consist of a 1-1/2 pct selling concession and a one pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
NEWS INTERNATIONAL ISSUES 100 MLN DLRS IN BONDS

News International <NWSL.L> Plc is issuing 100 mln dlrs of senior unsubordinated notes due April 10, 1990 carrying a coupon of 7-1/2 pct and priced at par, said Credit Suisse First Boston as lead manager. The notes, which are non-callable, are available in denomnations of 1,000 and 5,000 dlrs. Payment date is April 10. They are guaranteed by News Corp Ltd. Fees consist of a 7/8 pct selling concession and 1/2 pct combined management and underwriting. REUTER 
BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA ISSUES NEW ZEALAND DLR BOND

The Bank of Nova Scotia, Nassau branch, is issuing a 50 mln New Zealand dlr eurobond due April 14, 1989 carrying a 18-1/4 pct coupon and priced at 101 pct, lead manager Morgan Stanley International said. The issue, which will take the form of deposit notes, will be co-lead by Dominion Securities and Wood Gundy Inc. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and payment date is April 14. Fees comprise 3/4 pct selling concession and 1/2 pct for management and underwriting. REUTER 
POLLY PECK <PPKL.L> RAISES 20.3 MLN STG

<Polly Peck International Plc> said it has agreed to place 10 mln new ordinary shares at 203p each with a group of institutional investors. Polly Peck said it proposes to use the 20.3 mln stg raised by the share placing to further the development and expansion of its European marketing base and to hasten the development of its agricultural sourcing network in the Southern Hemisphere. The company added that this investment will assist the group's agricultural division in realising its aim of catering for an increasingly diverse range of worldwide markets on a round the year basis. REUTER 
SAUDI ARABIA BUYS 5,000 TONNES RBD PALM OLEIN

Saudi Arabia bought 5,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its import tender yesterday for April 16/25 shipment at 353 dlrs per tonne cost and freight Jeddah, traders said. REUTER 
CREDIT FONCIER DE FRANCE ISSUES 150 MLN ECU BOND

Credit Foncier de France is issuing a 150 mln ECU eurobond due April 14, 1994 at 7-5/8 pct and priced at 101-5/8 pct, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. The issue is guaranteed by France and will have a 50 mln ecu tap exercisable for six months. The bond will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 ECUs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwtriting combined. Payment date is April 14. REUTER 
ICI ISSUES 100 MLN STG 9-3/4 PCT EUROBOND

Imperial Chemical Industries Plc <ICI.L> is issuing a 100 mln stg eurobond due April 15, 2005 paying 9-3/4 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead manager Warburg Securities said. Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd is co-lead. The bond is in partly paid form with 30 pct due on April 15 and the remainder due for payment on July 15. It will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in London. Fees comprise 1-1/2 pct selling concession and 1/2 pct each for management and underwriting. REUTER 
SALOMON ISSUES 228 MLN DLR FLOATING RATE CMO

Salomon Brothers International's CMO Eurotrust subsidiary is issuing a 228 mln dlr collateralised mortgage obligation priced at par and yielding 40 basis points over the three-month London interbank offered rate (Libor), Salomon said as lead manager. However, interest, which is paid quarterly, cannot rise above 11.50 pct. The stated maturity date of the issue is May 1, 2017, but the deal has an expected life of 3.6 years which will vary with the rate at which homebuyers prepay their mortgages The pool itself consists of Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) securities paying 10.50 pct. The issue settles on April 27 with no accrued interest. Salomon noted that the issue carries the lowest spread over Libor of any CMO issued in the euromarkets to date. In explaining the pricing, a Salomon official noted that there has been very heavy demand for high-coupon U.S.Agency mortgage issues such as Fannie Maes and that the rising price of the collateral must be passed along to investors. REUTER 
TRADE SAYS EC SUGAR TENDER HARD TO FORECAST

Traders here and in Paris said the results of today's EC white sugar tender are hard to forecast because of plans by a group of French, West German, Dutch and Belgian operators to sell one mln tonnes of sugar into intervention. London traders said bids for licences have been reported between 43.00 and 44.00 Ecus per 100 kilos and if any licences are granted they are likely to be towards the lower end of that range, possibly 43.30/43.50 Ecus. Traders in Paris said they expect maximum rebates of between 43 and 43.50 Ecus. Other than the Commission releasing no sugar for export, the likely tonnage is expected to be very small, the London traders said, while the French sources declined to estimate volume in view of the psychological impact of the planned sales into intervention in protest against EC export policies. Last week licences for 60,500 tonnes were awarded at a maximum rebate of 43.147 Ecus. REUTER 
SECURICOR UNIT SEEKS 50 MLN STG CREDIT FACILITY

Security Services Plc, a unit of Securicor Group Plc, is seeking a 50 mln stg multi-option facility, County NatWest Capital Markets said as arranger. The facility will be for seven years and will allow the borrower to issue multi-currency advances and sterling acceptances through a tender panel. There will be an underwriting margin of up to of 3/16 pct over the London interbank offered rate. Underwriters will receive a fee of 15 basis points on the available portion of the facility and a fee of 10 basis points on the unavailable portion, which could be for up to half the facility. There will be a utilization fee of 1/16 pct when more than half the facility is in use. Securicor Group and other subsidiaries will guarantee the facility. REUTER 
U.K. ONE BILLION STG BOND TRANCHE EXHAUSTED

A one billion stg tranche of 8-3/4 pct Treasury Loan stock due 1997 was exhausted in very early trading on the U.K. Government bond market only minutes after becoming available for trading, dealers said. The Bank of England said the issue, announced on Monday and available for official dealings from this morning, was no longer operating as a tap. The striking price was a partly paid 41 stg pct, at which price bids were allotted 53.8 pct. Dealers noted that strong demand had been detected for the bonds yesterday afternoon and interest was further stimulated by sterling's surge at the opening this morning. Reuter 
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT INTERVENE IN MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it did not operate in the money market during the morning. Initially, the bank forecast a liqudity shortage of some 300 mln stg for the market today. Overnight interbank sterling traded at the 11-1/4 1/8 pct level for most of the morning while period rates have eased on the strength of sterling, dealers said. At 1200 gmt, sterling's trade-weighted index was up 0.6 at 72.7. REUTER 
STOREHOUSE CONVERTIBLE BOND RAISED TO 69 MLN STG

The stg convertible bond issue launched Monday for Storehouse PLC <STHL.L> was raised to 69 mln stg from the original 60 mln, co-lead Swiss Bank Corp International said. County NatWest Capital Markets is the other co-lead manager. The coupon has been fixed at 4-1/4 pct. The conversion price into Storehouse ordinary shares has been fixed at 346 pence which represents a premium of 9.84 pct over last night's 315 pence closing share price. The put price after five years is 126.8 to yield 8-3/4 pct. Selling period for the bond -- which dealers say has been seeing good demand -- has been accelerated to noon on Friday. The bond was trading today at 104-3/8 104-7/8 against its par issue price, traders said, adding the equity link ensured popularity on an oversupplied eurosterling primary market. The proceeds of the issue will be used to fund outstanding short-term borrowings, Storehouse Plc corporate treasurer Lance Moir told Reuters. The issue was also designed to increase the international profile of the British high street retail conglomerate and was consequently aimed primarily at continental investors who have shown a high degree of interest in the issue, he added. Demand came mainly from West Germany and Switzerland. REUTER 
LCE MOVE TO NEW PREMISES DELAYED TO END-MAY

The London Commodity Exchange (LCE) has put back the date at which it will move to its new premises in Commodity Quay to end-May from the intended early April launch, an LCE spokeswoman said. The move has been delayed as the installation of telecommunication facilities is running behind schedule due to the recent British Telecom strike, she said. Trading in the LCE's present markets is expected to end on May 22 and start in the new premises after the Spring Bank Holiday on May 26. The introduction of local traders and traded options is scheduled for early June, the spokeswoman added. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 106 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it gave the money market assistance worth 106 mln stg this afternoon, buying bank bills at the rates established on Monday. The Bank bought 11 mln stg of band one bills at 10-3/8 pct and 95 mln stg of band two paper at 10-5/16 pct. This is the first time that it has intervened today. The Bank has revised its estimate of the liquidity shortage in the market down to 250 mln stg from 300 mln initially. REUTER 
BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO LAUNCHES BOND/WARRANTS

Banca Nazionale del Lavoro (London branch) is issuing a 120 mln dlr, five-year straight bond with equity warrants, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The issue, which matures April 3, 1992, has an indicated coupon of 5-1/2 to six pct and par pricing. Fees total 2-1/4 pct and listing will be in Luxembourg. Payment date is April 2. The bonds will be sold in denominations of 1,000 dlrs with one warrant attached, which will be exercisable between April 15, 1987 and April 3, 1992. Each warrant will entitle the holder to purchase 45 savings shares of EFI Banca at a premium of about 10 pct above the closing price on the Milan Stock Exchange on or before March 17. EFI is a medium-term credit institution, about 36-1/2 pct owned by Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 240 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with unspecified late assistance of around 240 mln stg. This brings its total assistance on the day to 346 mln stg compared with a liquidity shortfall it estimated at a revised 250 mln stg. Overnight interbank sterling was being offered at eight pct shortly after the Bank's announcement. REUTER 
 UK INTERVENTION BD SAYS EC SETS WHITE SUGAR TENDER REBATE 43.248 ECUS.



THAI SUGAR PRODUCTION INCREASES

Thai sugar production totalled 960,788 tonnes in January, an increase of 12.7 pct on January 1986, according to figures received by the International Sugar Organization. November and December production figures also exceeded last year's totals with the result that output in the first three months of the season showed a 23.1 pct increase over 1985/86. Production in the November 1986 to January 1987 period totalled 1.29 mln tonnes. Thai exports in December and January were down, however. January exports fell from 73,164 to 35,910 tonnes. Domestic consumption increased 7.3 pct to 192,069 tonnes for the three month period, but this was not sufficient to prevent a significant rise in stocks, which climbed to 1.62 mln tonnes by the end of January, compared with 1.52 mln a year earlier. Thai Agricultural Ministry officials have previously forecast a decline in 1986/87 raws output to around 2.3 mln tonnes from 2.48 mln in 1985/86. Reuter 
NORDIC INVESTMENT BANK ISSUES DANISH CROWN BOND

Nordic Investment Bank is issuing a 300 mln Danish crown bond, due April 15, 1994, priced at par with an 11-1/4 pct coupon, lead manager Enskilda Securities said. The bonds are callable on April 15, 1992 at par and at any time for tax reasons. They will be sold in denominations of 20,000 crowns and listed in Luxembourg. Fees involve 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined, minus 1/8 pct for the co-leads. Payment date is April 15. The co-leads are Privatbanken A/S and Generale Bank Brussels. REUTER 
DNC INTERNATIONAL ISSUES 10 BILLION YEN BOND

DNC International Finance A.S. Is issuing a 10 billion yen eurobond due April 7, 1994 with a five pct coupon and priced at 102-3/8 pct, Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said as joint book-runner with Tokai International Ltd. The non-callable bonds, guaranteed by Den norske Creditbank, will be issued in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Total fees of 1-7/8 pct comprise 5/8 pct for management and underwriting and 1-1/4 pct for selling. Pay date is April 7. REUTER 
DNC INTERNATIONAL ISSUES 10 BILLION YEN BOND

DNC International Finance A.S. Is issuing a 10 billion yen eurobond due April 7, 1994 with a five pct coupon and priced at 102-3/8 pct, Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said as joint book-runner with Tokai International Ltd. The non-callable bonds, guaranteed by Den norske Creditbank, will be issued in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Total fees of 1-7/8 pct comprise 5/8 pct for management and underwriting and 1-1/4 pct for selling. Pay date is April 7. REUTER 
DEALERS WARY OVER STERLING INTERVENTION RUMOUR

Foreign exchange market rumours that the the Bank of England has been selling sterling to halt its rise prompted a wary response from dealers who said they saw no obvious confirmation, market sources said. Bank of England officials were not immediately available for comment. Earlier this week, the Bank sanctioned a cut in bank interest rates in a surprise move, which aimed at limiting sterling's rise ahead of the March 17 budget. But today the pound has strengthened to 72.7 on its trade-weighted index from 72.1 last night, though the U.K. Currency is below its day's high against the dollar. REUTER 
DEUTSCHE BANK ISSUES 150 MLN AUSTRALIA DLR BOND

Deutsche Bank Finance NV is issuing a 150 mln Australia dlr bond due April 15, 1992 with a coupon of 14-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2, said Deutsche Bank Capital Markets as lead manager. Payment date is April 15. The securities will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock exchange and will available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. There is a 1-3/8 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
INTERCO ESTABLISHES 50 MLN DLR REVOLVING FACILITY

Missouri-based Interco Inc is establishing a 50 mln dlr, five year revolving credit facility, Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd said as arranger. The facility allows for eurodollar and swingline advances up to 50 mln dlrs and also has an uncommitted option for short-term, multi-currency advances. The margin for eurodollar advances is 20 basis points over London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) and there is a utilisation fee of five basis points per annum if utilisation exceeds 50 pct. Swiss Bank Corp said that the facility pays a commitment fee of 10 basis points per annum on undrawn amounts. It has been syndicated on a club basis and signing is planned by the end of March. Interco is a manufacturer and retailer of consumer products and services. REUTER 
LICHT SEES RISE IN EUROPEAN BEET AREA: TRADE

West German sugar statistician F.O. Licht estimates European beet plantings this year at 7.22 mln hectares compared with a revised 1986 figure of 7.21 mln, traders said. In its first estimate for 1987, it puts EC plantings at 1.85 mln hectares compared with 1.89 mln in 1986, while it estimates sowings in Western Europe (including EC) at 2.49 mln hectares compared with 2.50 mln in 1986. Traders said Licht forecasts Eastern Europe plantings at 4.73 mln hectares against 4.72 mln in 1986. Reuter 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO CONTINUE MONDAY

Talks between management and unions at Cargill U.K. Ltd's Seaforth oilseed processing plant will resume Monday, a company spokesman said. He said some progress had been made. Three consecutive days of negotiations ended this afternoon after failing to break the deadlock. Reuter 
MERRILL LYNCH SAYS IT SUSPENDS NAHUM VASKEVITCH, HEAD OF LONDON MERGERS DEPARTMENT



BREMER LANDESBANK ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR BOND

Bremer Landesbank Kreditanstalt Finance Curacao NV is issuing a 40 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 24, 1990 paying 15 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager ANZ Merchant Bank Ltd said. The issue, which is guaranteed by Bremer Landesbank Kreditanstalt, is available in denominations of 1,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise one pct selling concession and 1/2 pct for management and underwriting. Pay date is April 24. REUTER 
TURKISH BANK SEEKS 20 MLN DLR LOAN

Uluslararasi Endustri ve Ticaret Bankasi AS (INTERBANK), a large privately-owned trade financing bank in Turkey, is seeking a 20 mln dlr committed export advance facility, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said as lead manager. The financing will be for 14 months, but the borrower will have the option after 10 months to request an extension for another six months. Those banks wishing to extend would receive another 25 basis point fee. The financing will be in dollars and marks, although mark borrowings cannot exceed 50 pct of the facility. The facility will be available for 70 days and interest will be at 1-1/4 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). There will be a commitment fee of 50 basis points. Banks are being invited to join the facility at four mln dlrs for 55 basis points and at two mln dlrs for 40 basis points. Responses are due by April 3 and the financing is being syndicated among a broad-based group of international banks to diversify the borrower's traditional lending base. REUTER 
NATIONAL SAVINGS MOVE POINTS TO LOWER U.K. RATES

U.K. Interest rates look set to move lower even after Monday's half-point cut in bank base rates to 10-1/2 pct, analysts said, citing as evidence the suspension of a British National Savings issue yesterday. The Department of National Savings, effectively a Treasury Department unit, yesterday suspended its 32nd issue, launched in October and paying a high tax-free 8-3/4 pct on five-year private investments between 25 and 5,000 stg. A spokesman said the suspension was just a reaction to yields on national savings bonds being way out of line with the rest of the market. The move was followed by a surprise sell-out within minutes today of a Bank of England one-billion stg tap issue, the second such issue in as many weeks, analysts noted. They said the near-instant sale of the entire new gilts issue, for which the Bank of England had required a high 40 pct downpayment, was clear evidence that the market thought rates had to drop sooner rather than later. The sale of the tranche of 8-3/4 pct treasury bonds due 1997 occurred in an active, bullish gilts market as downward pressure on money market rates remained intact, with the bellwether three-month interbank rate down 1/8 point at 10-9-7/8 pct. It coincided with another strong sterling rally which pushed the pound to four-year highs against the dollar. "That government stock disappeared very quickly indeed," said Stephen Lewis, head of economic research at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew; "It is an indication that the market believes rates are going to fall further ... At least by a half-point immediately after the budget (on March 17), and some people hope for more." Stockbrokers James Capel said in a comment the move by the National Savings Department was "of considerable significance." It said, "the real message ... Is that the decks are being quickly cleared so as to facilitate a speedy decision by the building societies to cut their rates when the inevitable cut in bank base rates to 10 pct materialises." Building societies have said a drop in bank base rates would normally have to exceed half a point to give rise to a reduction in mortgage lending rates. Lewis of Phillips and Drew said he too believed the National Savings issue suspension may reflect new U.K. Treasury policy to point building societies towards a mortgage rate cut. "National Savings has been competing too effectively with the building societies of late. Building society income has been depressed in recent months," he said. He and other analysts said Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson was keen to see mortgage rates fall to keep a lid on U.K. Inflation. Underlying upward pressure on prices is stronger in Britain than in most other Western economies with inflation seen rising well above four pct this year and above five pct in 1988 after last year's 3.7 pct. Emphasising the impact of mortgage rates on consumer prices, Lewis said a one-point cut in building society rates would reduce inflation in Britain by about 0.4 pct. But Lewis and others noted that building societies had been complaining to the government about intense competition from National Savings, which they argued reduced the scope for early mortgage rate cuts. "The Chancellor need not be worried about losing some PSBR funding from National Savings, but he must be taking the building societies' criticism to heart. It looks like the National Savings move reflects this," one senior dealer said. A Savings Department spokesman refused to comment on this interpretation, saying the suspension of the issue was merely a reaction to the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates, which had pushed yields on national savings bonds way out of line with the rest of the market. "We are not politically motivated ... Funding was just becoming too expensive and we don't need all that money," he told Reuters, adding the department had suspended issues at least twice in the past, when offered interest rates were above or below market rates. He said demand for the issue had risen sharply of late as U.K. Money market rates continued their steady decline and income was threatening to overshoot an unofficial three billion stg target set for fiscal 1986 ending March 31. In the first 10 months of fiscal 1986, National Saving's contribution to government funding totalled 2.72 billion stg, compared with 2.01 billion stg in the same period of the previous year, official figures show. Figures for February, out on Monday, are expected to show a further increase of between 300 and 400 mln stg, pushing the total for 11 months above target, government officials said. REUTER 
BRITAIN TO MINT NEW "BRITANNIA" GOLD COIN

Britain will from next autumn mint and market a new bullion coin called the "Britannia" containing one ounce of 24 carat gold, together with bullion coins of smaller denominations, a Treasury official said. The new investment coin, to be sold worldwide, will fluctuate in price according to the international price of gold. The smaller coins will be in denominations of a half ounce, a quarter ounce and a tenth of an ounce. REUTER 
U.K. BANKS OFFER FIXED-RATE MORTGAGES AT 10.2 PCT

Two major U.K. Clearing banks announced they will offer a total of 800 mln stg in new mortgages at a fixed interest rate of 10.2 pct for the first three years, below current bank base lending rates of 10.5 pct. Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said it has initially allocated 500 mln stg for home loans at this rate, while Lloyds Bank Plc <LLOY.L> will offer 300 mln stg. Earlier this week, Midland said it would cut its standard rate of mortgage payment to 11.5 pct from April 1, following a half a percentage point reduction in leading banks' base lending rates from 11 pct. Building society and other bank mortgage rates are largely still well above the new base rate level, although last year Lloyds offered a fixed rate of 9.9 pct on certain home loans. A Midland spokesman said his bank calculated that at the current level of 2.7 billion stg, its existing mortgage book accounts for about 5 pct of the total British home loan market. Lloyds said it has 3.6 billion stg in outstanding mortgage loans, but had not estimated its total market share. Among other major clearing banks, Barclays Plc <BCS.L> and National Westminister Bank Plc <NWBL.L> said they had no immediate plans to announce similar fixed rate schemes. Reuter 
BRITISH MINISTER CRITICISES PROPOSED EC OILS TAX

A British minister said that a proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats would raise the price of fish and chips and he pledged the government would fight against it. Lord Belstead, a junior agriculture minister, told the House of Lords the tax would raise the price of raw materials used in many processed foods by about 100 pct. He said revenue should not be raised by taxing the consumer and called the proposal "repugnant." Reuter 
MOSCOW CARRIES OUT NUCLEAR TEST

The Soviet Union carried out a nuclear test early today, the official Tass news agency reported. According to the report, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, the explosion was at 0200 gmt. A blast on February 26 ended a 19-month unilateral test moratorium declared by the Soviet Union. Moscow blamed the end of the freeze on U.S. Refusal to join a total test ban. Tass said the latest explosion, with a power of up to 20 kilotonnes, had "the aim of improving military equipment." REUTER 
BRITAIN TO MINT NEW "BRITANNIA" GOLD COIN

Britain will from next autumn mint and market a new bullion coin called the "Britannia" containing one ounce of 24 carat gold, together with bullion coins of smaller denominations, a Treasury official said. The new investment coin, to be sold worldwide, will fluctuate in price according to the international price of gold. The smaller coins will be in denominations of a half ounce, a quarter ounce and a tenth of an ounce. REUTER 
NEW U.K. POLL SAYS TORIES HAVE SIX-POINT LEAD

Britain's ruling Conservatives have moved into a six-point lead over the main opposition Labour Party, a Marplan poll published in today's Guardian newspaper reports. The Conservatives are shown with a 38 pct share of the vote against 32 pct for Labour and 27 pct for the centrist Social-Democratic/Liberal Alliance. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has until June, 1988 to call a general election, but most political analysts expect her to go to the country some time this year. REUTER 
GENENTECH CONVERTIBLE BOND UPPED TO 150 MLN DLRS

The convertible eurobond issue announced yesterday for Genentech Inc <GENE.O> has been increased to a total of 150 mln dlrs from 100 mln, Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd (CSFB) said as lead manager. The coupon has been set at five pct and conversion price at 74 dlrs per share which represents a 23.85 pct premium over Genentech's stock closing level of 59.75 on the New York Stock Exchange last night. Payment date has been brought forward to March 27 from March 30 and the bonds will mature on March 27, 2002. REUTER 
HYDRO QUEBEC ISSUES CANADIAN DLR BOND

Hydro Quebec is issuing a 125 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 21, 1997 paying nine pct and priced at 100-3/4 pct, lead manager Merrill Lynch International said. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 3/8 pct each for management and underwriting. Pay date is April 21. REUTER 
SALOMON RAISES SIZE OF CMO TO 350 MLN DLRS

Salomon Brothers international inc said it has raised the size of its Collateralised Mortgage Obligation TRUST 23 to 350 mln dlrs from the 228 mln dlrs announced yesterday. All other terms of the issue remain the same, Salomon said. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP IN MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it had invited the discount houses to make an early round of bill offers to help offset a large liquidity shortage in the money market. It estimated the shortage at around 1.55 billion stg, one adverse factor being the unwinding of a sale and repurchase agreement, with the market having to buy back bills worth 542 mln stg from the Bank. Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 957 mln stg wile exchequer transactions and a note circulation rise would take out 15 mln and 25 mln respectively. Above target bankers' balances would add 10 mln. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had bought bills worth 1.059 billion stg from the market for resale on March 31 at rates of interest between 10-7/16 pct and 10-17/32 pct. Earlier, the Bank said it estimated the liquidity shortage in the market today at around 1.55 billion stg. REUTER 
TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT ISSUES 23 BILLION YEN BOND

Toyota Motor Credit Corp is issuing a 23 billion yen eurobond due April 10, 1992 paying 4-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment is April 10. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
INDIA BUYS WHITE SUGAR FROM LONDON TRADERS

India yesterday bought two cargoes of white sugar from London traders for April/May shipment and granted the trade houses the option to sell an additional two cargoes at the same price for May/June shipment, the firms involved said. E D and F Man and Woodhouse, Drake and Carey both said they sold single cargoes at 237.35 dlrs a tonne cif for April/May and were granted options to sell an extra cargo each at the same price for May/June at the Indian buying tender for three to four cargoes of whites held yesterday. The tender had called for a single cargo of prompt and two to three cargoes of April/May. REUTER 
ROWNTREE ISSUES CONVERTIBLE EUROSTERLING BOND

Rowntree Mackintosh Plc <RWNT.L> is issuing a 55 mln stg eurobond due March 31, 2002, paying an indicated coupon of 4-1/2 pct to five pct and priced at par, lead manager J Henry Schroder Wagg and Co Ltd said. Final terms on the issue will be fixed by March 16. Denominations are 1,000 stg and listing will be London. There is a put option on March 31, 1992, to yield 8-1/2 to nine pct and the bond is also callable by the borrower until March 31, 1988, at 106 pct, declining by one pct per annum thereafter to par. However the call will not be before 1992. REUTER 
TOYOTA MOTOR CREDIT ISSUES 23 BILLION YEN BOND

Toyota Motor Credit Corp is issuing a 23 billion yen eurobond due April 10, 1992 paying 4-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment is April 10. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
SALOMON RAISES SIZE OF CMO TO 350 MLN DLRS

Salomon Brothers international inc said it has raised the size of its Collateralised Mortgage Obligation TRUST 23 to 350 mln dlrs from the 228 mln dlrs announced yesterday. All other terms of the issue remain the same, Salomon said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 442 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the market with a further 442 mln stg assistance during the morning to offset a liquidity shortage it estimated at 1.60 billion stg, revised up from 1.55 billion The bank bought outright eight mln stg of band one treasury bills and five mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct. It bought a further 429 mln stg of bills for resale to the discount houses on April 2 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. So far today, the bank has given the market assistance worth a total of 1.501 billion stg. REUTER 
U.K. GILT MARKET TURNOVER EASES IN FEBRUARY

Turnover in the U.K. Government bond (gilt) market in February slipped to 81.25 billion stg from January's 83.37 billion, although it was 165 pct higher than the 30.63 billion in February 1986, the Stock Exchange said. The Stock Exchange noted, however, that turnover between bond market-makers through the inter-dealer broker (IDB) screen system, as distinct from business with outside clients, has only been included from October 1986, meaning that prior data is not strictly comparable with recent figures. The contribution to overall February, 1987 volume from IDB business was 43.10 billion stg, against 43.19 in January. In the 20 trading days of February, the average daily volume of business was 4.06 billion stg, against an average of 3.97 billion in January, which had 21 trading days. Total Stock Exchange turnover for the month was 116.73 billion stg, marginally higher than the 116.65 billion recorded in January but 129 pct more than the 50.92 billion of February 1986. REUTER 
NEW U.K. POLL SAYS TORIES HAVE SIX-POINT LEAD

Britain's ruling Conservatives have moved into a six-point lead over the main opposition Labour Party, a Marplan poll published in today's Guardian newspaper reports. The Conservatives are shown with a 38 pct share of the vote against 32 pct for Labour and 27 pct for the centrist Social-Democratic/Liberal Alliance. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has until June, 1988 to call a general election, but most political analysts expect her to go to the country some time this year. Reuter 
SAUDI SUPERTANKER REPORTED HIT BY IRAN OFF UAE

Iran attacked the Saudi Arabian supertanker Arabian Sea off the United Arab Emirates last night but the vessel was able to proceed after the incident, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence reported. The 315,695-dwt Arabian Sea had set sail on Tuesday after loading oil at the Saudi port of Ras Tannurah. Lloyds said the attack occurred at about 2200 hrs local time (1800 GMT). Reuter 
U.K. RETAILERS SEE GROWTH IN CONSUMER SPENDING

U.K. Retailers expect consumer spending to accelerate in March after a disappointing increase in February, according to a monthly survey by the Confederation of British Industry (CBI). Fifty-nine pct of the 325 retailers questioned for the latest Distributive Trades Survey expected sales to be higher in March than they were in March 1986, with only six pct expecting lower sales. The chairman of the Distributive Trades Survey Panel, Nigel Whittaker, said a favourable Budget next week would further help sales during the summer. Figures released earlier this week showed retail sales in January fell 2.2 pct, mainly due to exceptionally cold weather. "Sales did not recover in February as much as retailers had expected, and they are now looking for better business in March," today's survey said. It reported clothing stores were the most optimistic, with 80 pct expecting sales in March to be higher than a year ago. Wholesalers also expected stronger sales in March, while both retailers and wholesalers reported slower growth in import penetration, it said. REUTER 
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER TWO MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it gave the market further assistance of two mln stg during the afternoon, buying that amount of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct. The bank has given the market assistance worth 1.503 billion stg today to offset a shortage it estimated at a revised 1.60 billion. REUTER 
U.K. EQUITY TURNOVER SETS NEW RECORD IN FEBRUARY

Turnover in U.K. Equities soared to a record 31.05 billion stg in February, a 12 pct increase on the previous month's 27.83 billion, the London Stock Exchange said. February turnover was also 96 pct higher than the 15.84 billion stg total posted in the same month a year ago. A monthly fact sheet from the Stock Exchange showed eight new companies were admitted to listing in February, six of which were U.K. Firms. The largest of these was British Airways, which was privatised in February and whose share offer raised over 900 mln stg, it said. The Stock Exchange also said six rights issues during the month raised 223.6 mln stg compared with 129.5 mln from nine issues in Febuary 1986. Daily average equity turnover in the 20 business days in February was 1.55 billion stg after 1.33 billion in the 21 trading days in January, an increase of 17 pct. Total Stock Exchange turnover of both gilts and equities was 116.73 billion stg, marginally higher than the 116.65 billion recorded in January but 129 pct more than the 50.92 billion of February 1986. REUTER 
BENNETTON, MERRILL LYNCH UNIT PLAN JOINT VENTURE

Merrill Lynch <MER> Capital Markets said it and Bennetton Group SPA <BTOM.M> will form a joint venture to attract investment in unquoted Italian companies. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets will launch the venture with In Capital SPA, a Milan investment bank in which Bennetton has a 75 pct holding. The remaining 25 pct is owned by Gruppo Finanziario Tessile S.P.A., A private textile firm. The two companies, who have signed a letter of intent, said they hoped the venture will generate investments of up to 50 billion lire in private Italian firms operating in fast-growing fields. Benetton is a large Italian clothing maker, with some 4,400 retail outlets worldwide. The new venture, which represents the first partnership between an international investment bank and a large company, is designed to help Benetton expand the operations of In Capital. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets is the London-based international merchant banking arm of Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd, which in turn is part of the U.S. Based investment banking firm of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc. Reuter 
PANAMANIAN WHEAT SHIP STILL GROUNDED OFF SYRIA

The Panamanian bulk carrier Juvena is still aground outside Tartous, Syria, despite discharging 6,400 tons of its 39,000-ton cargo of wheat, and water has entered the engine-room due to a crack in the vessel bottom, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence Service said. The Juvena, 53,351 tonnes dw, ran aground outside Tartous port basin breakwater on February 25 in heavy weather and rough seas. Reuter 
GENENTECH CONVERTIBLE BOND UPPED TO 150 MLN DLRS

The convertible eurobond issue announced yesterday for Genentech Inc <GENE.O> has been increased to a total of 150 mln dlrs from 100 mln, Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd (CSFB) said as lead manager. The coupon has been set at five pct and conversion price at 74 dlrs per share which represents a 23.85 pct premium over Genentech's stock closing level of 59.75 on the New York Stock Exchange last night. Payment date has been brought forward to March 27 from March 30 and the bonds will mature on March 27, 2002. REUTER 
HYDRO QUEBEC ISSUES CANADIAN DLR BOND

Hydro Quebec is issuing a 125 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 21, 1997 paying nine pct and priced at 100-3/4 pct, lead manager Merrill Lynch International said. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 3/8 pct each for management and underwriting. Pay date is April 21. REUTER 
BRITISH AIRWAYS <BAB> FEBRUARY LOAD FACTOR UP

British Airways PLC said February 1987 load factor rose to 64.7 pct, up 5.4 percentage points from February 1986. Revenue passenger miles increased 14.8 pct in February to 1.75 billion but fell 0.7 pct in the fiscal year-to-date to 23.54 billion, the British carrier said. Available seat miles rose 5.2 pct in February to 2.73 billion and 1.3 pct in the 11 months to 35.27 billion. Load factor, the percentage of seats filled, fell 1.4 percentage points to 66.7 pct in the April through February period. The British carrier made its first traffic report since the British Government sold it to the public last month. Reuter 
HYDRO QUEBEC CANADIAN DLR BOND RAISED TO 150 MLN

The Canadian dollar bond launched earlier today for Hydro Quebec has been increased to 150 mln dlrs from 125 mln, lead manager Merrill Lynch International said. REUTER 
NORSK HYDRO ISSUES 100 MLN DLR BOND

Norsk Hydro is issuing a 100 mln dlr bond due April 9, 1997 carrying a coupon of 8-1/4 pct and priced at 101-5/8, said Swiss Bank Corp International as lead manager. The issue is non-callable and will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Payment date is April 9. Fees for the issue include a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and a 3/4 pct combined management and underwriting fee. The securities are available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs each. They are priced to yield 97 basis points over 10-year U.S. Treasury notes. REUTER 
INDIA BUYS RBD PALM OLEIN AT TENDER

The Indian State Trading Corp bought one, or possibly two, 6,000 tonne cargoes of Malaysian refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its vegetable oil import tender today for Mar 15/Apr 15 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, traders said. Reuter 
ICO BOARD MEETING DELAYED ONE DAY

The International Coffee Organization (ICO) executive board meeting scheduled for the end of this month has been delayed by one day and will now run from March 31 to April 2 and not March 30 to April 1, ICO officials said. On March 30, the ICO ad hoc working group will meet to consider management consultants Ernst & Whinney's report on the ICO secretariat. This report was commissioned late last year to report on the administrative structure of the ICO. Reuter 
FRN MARKET SLUMPS, FIXED RATE EUROBOND TRADE QUIET

Eurobond prices in the floating rate note sector slumped across the board by as much as a full point on some issues. "Today has been irrational, irresponsible -- possibly the worst day in what has been a dire six months for the floater market," commented a senior FRN trader at a U.K. Bank. Republic of Ireland FRNs were marked sharply down in initial trading and market nerves soon infected other supra-national and sovereign paper with dealers attributing the falls to aggressive professional shorting by a few leading U.S. Investment houses. The FRN market has been suffering from acute contraction of liquidity and consequent drain of investor confidence since the effective collapse in the market for perpetual floating rate issues late last year. Since then, FRN specialists noted that retail interest has been sparse or completely absent and the stagnant market for floating rate paper has become increasingly vulnerable to manipulation, with nerves affecting all variety of borrowers. Floating rate debt of U.S. And Canadian banks came under pressure last month when fears resurfaced about their exposure to Latin American debt. Canadian banks were hard hit today. Fears about the Irish economy, exacerbated by recent post-electoral political wrangling in Dublin, prompted a sell-off of Ireland paper this morning with both dollar and mark-denominated Irish issues tumbling by a full point or more. However, FRN dealers polled by Reuters felt the Irish issues had been singled out -- as the U.S. And Canadian banks were most recently -- as the market's most vulnerable sector. "A handful of professional houses are targetting the weak paper, shorting it aggressively and this is just starting the domino effect with basically sound paper also starting to roll with it," a senior FRN market source explained. Although floating paper from better-regarded borrowers such as the U.K. Managed to finish the day only around 10 basis points down, other sovereigns like Sweden and supranationals like Eurofima suffered heavier losses, FRN dealers said. Debt exposure fears continued to undermine U.S. And Canadian bank paper with one U.K. House citing a fall of 1-5/8 point on the day on a Royal Bank of Canada issue. FRN traders noted Japanese investors, initially enthusiastic floating rate debt buyers, had lost confidence in the market and speculated that a crisis meeting, such as the one called upon the collapse of the perpetuals, could be imminent. "Retail clients just don't want to know about the floaters any more so it has degenerated to a wily pass-the-parcel among the professionals, all scheming to sweep the paper under the carpet," another senior FRN trader said. "I don't know what is going to happen to the market. It can't go on like this," he added. In the fixed-rate sector, trading was dull with the market still attempting to digest a heavy volume of new issues from earlier this week although primary market activity slowed somewhat today, trading and syndicate sources reported. Dollar straight bonds ended the day barely changed from opening levels as investors failed to react on the unexpectedly large 4.1 pct rise in U.S. February retail sales, prefering to wait for tomorrow's producer price and business inventory data. A 100 mln dlr deal for Norsk Hydro was launched later in the day and the issue was trading around its total two pct fees at close of grey market trade although dealers said the borrower's frequent appearance in the euromarkets could deter investors. The Canadian dollar sector however saw good two-way trade and a continuation of recent healthy volume as the Canadian dollar rides high on the foreign exchanges and futures markets. Dealers said the strength of the Canadian dollar, which has firmed especially over the last two days, has renewed end investors confidence in the currency. A new Canadian dollar issue for Hydro Quebec was seeing excellent demand, sector specialists said, and the issue was quickly increased to a total of 150 mln dlrs from 125 mln. "This kind of paper can be hard to sell and it is gratifying to see such a high level of interest, both European and domestic Canadian demand," commented one trader at a Canadian house. Eurosterling, which has been in the limelight lately, also on foreign exchange and currency bullishness, slipped slightly. Senior eurosterling sources noted that bond prices fell back today, more or less in line with losses seen on the U.K. Government bond market -- around 5/8 point lower at the longer end of the eurosterling market. Dealers said overseas investors had not been buying today and predicted consolidation before next week's U.K. Budget. A 55 mln stg convertible issue for confectioners Rowntree Mackintosh was well bid at 104-5/8 105-1/8 pct and expected to go well. Euroyen bonds showed a firmer tone led by some professional short covering from Tokyo. Today's 23 billion deal for Toyota Motor Credit with a 4-1/2 pct coupon was deemed tight however. REUTER 
"BRITANNIA" COIN TO SELL AT PREMIUM

The new British one ounce gold coin, the "Britannia," will be priced on the basis of the gold price on the day of purchase plus a "competitive premium," Treasury officials said. Value added tax will be levied on all purchases by members of the U.K. Public, as is currently the case with foreign coins, although transactions between members of the London Gold Market and all exports of the coins will be zero-rated. No decision has yet been taken on the face value of the coins. Although a number of gold coins, especially the Canadian Maple, have been issued elsewhere in an attempt to take the place of the South African krugerrand, the British government still feels that there is a gap in the market for a British one ounce gold coin. The only British gold coin available at present is the sovereign, which contains 0.2354 ounces of gold. Gold from South Africa or the Soviet Union will not be used in the coin, officials said, adding that bullion would be bought on the world gold market. But analysts said it would be difficult to ascertain the origins of such purchases. No details are yet available on how many coins will be issued or how much gold will be bought, but traders said that the amounts involved would be unlikely to move the gold price. There were some enquiries on the "Britannia" from coin dealers today, but value added tax would prove a major factor in the success of the coin, with the 15 pct tax likely to put off many investors, traders said. Some said that the "Britannia" had come too late, with the Canadian Maple Leaf, the American Eagle and other gold coins already well established. Reuter 
LME CONSIDERING CHANGES TO CLEARING SYSTEM

A proposal the London Metal Exchange, LME, change its new clearing system, due to start May 29, was made today at a meeting of LME members and International Commodities Clearing House, ICCH, representatives. Amalgamated Metal Trading Ltd, AMT, proposed that a daily cash-cleared system common to all other markets should be adopted, rather than the system currently planned whereby prompt dates are settled when they mature. AMT claims the margin requirements for the latter will be costly. Opposition to the proposal came mainly from trade and industry representatives who, as traditional users of the Exchange's hedging facilities, said a cash-cleared system would be more costly for them. LME Board Chairman Jacques Lion said any major alterations to the planned new clearing system would have to be referred to the Securities and Investment Board, SIB, and this could be time consuming, bearing in mind the May 29 start-up. There was also a risk of the Exchange losing its greatest asset, its trade hedging business, he said. Lion accepted a proposal that, while clearing with the ICCH continue as planned, details of AMT's cash clearing system be circulated for consideration and discussion by LME Board, Committee and members for possible introduction at a later date. The LME also said that Japanese yen contracts will now be excluded from clearing as they are not used widely enough to warrant inclusion. Reuter 
U.K. GOVERNMENT ISSUES INSIDER DEALING SUMMONS

The Department of Trade and Industry, DTI, has issued insider dealing charges against a former employee of British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc <BCOM.L>, a DTI statement said. DTI is charging Ronald Richard Jenkins, until recently employed by British and Commonwealth's subsidiary Cayzer Irvine and Co Ltd. He is to appear April 27 in a London court. The summons is the second insider dealing prosecution launched by the government under recent legislation. The charges allege two insider dealing offences in securities of B and C and <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>. A DTI spokesman said plans to prosecute follow a probe into the matter since mid-December by a lawyer and a London Stock Exchange official who were officially appointed by the DTI as inspectors. In November, B and C said an unnamed employee had resigned after he was discovered buying shares in Steel Brothers just before B and C announced an agreed bid for the 55 pct of Steel which it did not already own. The attempted trade, which was subsequently cancelled, covered 2,500 Steel shares purchase at 595p compared with a bid price at 630p. Reuter 
INVESTORS MORE ACTIVE IN GILT MARKET, SURVEY SAYS

Institutional investors are finding it difficult to find "the best price" for transactions in U.K. Government bonds (gilts) and have become more active in the market since the deregulation of the London Stock Exchange in October, agency broker Capel-Cure Myers said in a survey. The survey, covering a broad section of institutional investors, also showed that investors were uneasy about the impartiality of market makers' advice. Given their concerns, over half those surveyed said they spend more time managing their portfolios. At the same time, the investors believed the market was more liquid and efficient than before Big Bang. Capel-Cure, a unit of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, conducted the survey during January among 70 institutions which are not clients of that firm. Banks and merchant banks accounted for 32 pct of the total, building societies 30 pct, life assurance companies 20 pct, insurance companies 11 pct and pension funds seven pct. The survey found that with the virtual elimination of commissions, the improved market liquidity has encouraged investors to deal more frequently in the market. Of those responding, 70 pct were encouraged to deal more actively, 25 pct which saw no change and five pct dealt less actively. A Capel-Cure official told reporters the elimination of commissions has made the market more competitive. He said Capel-Cure has deliberately set low commisstions because of this. Nearly half the respondents said they now have their own dealing team to cope with the new market, although the definition of a "dealing team" was ambiguous, the survey said. Rather than being a self-contained, specialised group of dealers who spend all their time searching for prices, the definition now appears to be the less formal idea of a multi-purpose fund manager, it said. The survey supported the general view in the gilt market that a shake-out of the 27 market-makers is likely. It showed nearly 90 pct of the respondents believed that the total number of market makers in three years time would be less than 20, while 46 pct thought the number would be less than 15. Some 79 pct of respondents said they expect the number of agency brokers (for which there was no estimate) to fall over the next three years. Unlike broker/dealers, agency brokers do not take positions in the market, but the survey showed 68 pct of respondents did not consider this very important when deciding whether to use one. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND OFFERS EARLY HELP TO MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers to help ease tight conditions in the money market. The bank estimated today's liquidity shortage at about 1.10 billion stg. Bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up would drain 1.21 billion stg from the system while a rise in the note circulation and below target bankers' balances would take out 265 mln and 180 mln respectively, the bank said. Against this, exchequer transactions would add a net 535 mln stg. REUTER 
OKB ISSUES 100 MLN CANADIAN DLR BOND

Oesterreichishce Kontrollbank AG is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr eurobond due March 20, 1997 at nine pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said as joint book-runner with LTCB International. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprised 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 3/4 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
CBS ISSUES 400 MLN DLRS IN CONVERTIBLE DEBT

CBS Inc <CBS.N> is issuing 400 mln dlrs of convertible debt due April 7, 2002 with a coupon of five pct and priced at par, said Morgan Stanley Ltd as lead manager. The securities are convertible into shares of CBS at a price of 200 dlrs per share, which represents a premium of 26.2 pct over the company's closing stock price yesterday of 158.50 dlrs on the New York Stock Exchange. The issue is callable in the first three years only if the stock prices rises abouve 130 pct of the conversion level. There is a 1-1/2 pct selling concession and a one pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
BRITISH WHEAT AREA DOWN, MINISTRY CENSUS SHOWS

A total of 1.886 mln hectares was sown to wheat in Britain, excluding Northern Ireland, up to December 1, 1986 for the 1987 crop, a Ministry of Agriculture census shows. It compares with 1.925 mln planted in the same period 1985. The barley area was unchanged at 952,000 ha, but oilseed rape increased to 393,000 from 333,000 ha. REUTER 
TAX REVENUES BOOST U.K. BUDGET OPTIONS

A mix of electoral boldness and fiscal caution is expected from Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson next week when he unveils his budget for fiscal 1987/88. Exceptionally robust tax revenues have given Lawson very favourable budget options with which to please voters, industry and financial markets alike. The budget will Lawson's fourth, and probably the last from the Conservative government before the next general election, political analysts say. Analysts said the major budget question is how Lawson will balance expected tax cuts with lower public borrowing, and allow for fresh falls in U.K. Interest rates. They said a boost given to the economy by consumer spending has helped reduce the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) for financial 1986/87 from an originally targetted 7.1 billion stg, despite big rises in government spending. Economists say Lawson may have up to five billion stg to split between income tax cuts and other electoral "sweeteners," higher spending and a drop in borrowing, while still meeting his earlier 1987/88 PSBR target of 7.0 billion stg. The decision facing Lawson is how best to use that so-called "fiscal adjustement" to maximise the government's all-round popularity ahead of the next general election. Economist Ian Harwood of Warburg Securities said Lawson's budget must strike a balance between tax cuts aimed at home consumption and lower public borrowing for attracting support from overseas investors. Peter Fellner of James Capel and Co said "a budget which concentrates on tax cuts for the consumer will be a budget for an early election." Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher must call a poll before June, 1988. But anticipation of a summer or autumn 1987 ballot has risen as the opposition Labour Party has slipped in voter surveys. Forecasts that the economy may deteriorate later this year add to arguments for an early poll, analysts say. The Conservatives have pledged to cut the basic rate of taxation in the U.K. From the current 29 pct level to 25 pct. While confirming that aim, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher last month seemed to dash speculation that that would happen in the near future. She said in a television interview that it would happen "Eventually. But I think it will be eventually." Most market analysts now expect a two-pence reduction in the basic rate of taxation and a lowering in of the top rate of income tax from 60 pct. A one billion stg cut in the 1987/88 PSBR - to six billion stg - is considered the minimum needed for reassuring financial markets, they add. The Treasury's inflow of tax receipts has far surpassed that previously envisaged, economists say. Lawson as recently as December 17 said that "I very much doubt whether there will be much scope for reductions in taxation in next year's budget." The Conservative government is eager to get the basic rate of tax down to 25 pct as soon as possible, since every pound off the tax base would make the opposition Labour Party's spending plans look more painful to the electorate, analysts say. The direct revenue effect of a one penny change in the basic rate of income tax would be about 1.1 billion stg in 1987/88 and 1.45 billion stg in 1988/89, Treasury figures show. Lawson's budget speech to Parliament on Tuesday starts at 1530 GMT, and is sure to echo the government's distinct tone of optimism, analysts say. The tax measures which Lawson is expected to announce will be based firmly on a positive assessment of past economic achievements and confidence for the future, they add. But even if he does cut his planned PSBR for 1987/88 by between one and 1.5 billion stg, as most economists predict, Lawson is still likely to find himself announcing a higher PSBR than the outturn for this financial year.^M That could leave him with a presentation problem, economists say. A lower PSBR would raise financial confidence by reassuring markets that the borrowing burden imposed by the government would stay low even if certain key aspects of the budget's arithmetic seem over-optimistic, economists say Lawson is slated to reaffirm the government's goals, as set out in its Medium Term Financial Strategy (MTFS), of reducing inflation and raising economic growth. Regarding monetary targets, some analysts expect him to drop the wayward broad money aggregate, sterling M-3, while retaining the tamer M0 narrow measure. Few foresee any other monetary aggregate being chosen by Lawson for formal targeting. Analysts were surprised this week when the government sanctioned a half percentage point cut in interest rates, in an attempt to cool down sterling and the gilts market. Analysts had expected the authorities to wait until after the budget. Further declines in bank base lending rates are anticipated after the budget. Many analysts foresee them falling by as much as a full percentage point from the current 10.5 pct level. The main electoral attraction of reducing interest rates is to cut mortgage borrowing costs, and thus reduce inflation, analysts say. Each one percentage point cut in the mortgage rate reduces retail prices by 0.4 pct, government figures show. REUTER 
INDIA TOOK THREE CARGOES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER

The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought three cargoes of rbd palm olein at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said. Late yesterday the market was reporting it had bought one to two cargoes. The business comprised two 6,000 tonne cargoes for March 15/April 15 shipments at 355 dlrs per tonne cif, and 6,000 tonnes for May at 358 dlrs. The first two cargoes were on a cash basis and the May position was transacted on a 30 pct counter-trade basis, traders said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 478 MLN STG EARLY HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the market with 478 mln stg of early assistance to help ease a liquidity shortage it estimated at 1.10 billion stg. It made outright purchases of seven mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct and 30 mln stg of band two bank bills at 10-5/16 pct. In addition, it bought 294 mln stg of paper for resale to the market on March 30 and 147 mln stg for resale on April 8, in both cases at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER 
METAL BOX ISSUES 60 MLN STG CONVERTIBLE BONDS

Metal Box Plc <MBXL.L> is issuing 60 mln stg of convertible eurobonds due April 28, 2002 with an indicated coupon of 5-3/4 pct to six pct and priced at par, Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd said as lead manager. The conversion premium will be five to 10 pct and the price will be fixed on or before March 18. The bonds will be callable at 106 after five months and until April 28, 1988 and thereafter at prices declining by one pct per annum until 1993 but only if the share price is 130 pct of the conversion price. The bonds will be listed in London and will be issued in denominations of 1,000 stg. Fees for the issue total 2-1/2 pct, comprising 1-1/2 pct for selling and 1/2 pct each for management and underwriting. There is a 1/4 pct praecipuum. Pay date is April 28. REUTER 
NEW ZEALAND LAUNCHES 100 MLN STG EUROBOND

New Zealand is launching a 100 mln stg eurobond due April 9, 1995, priced at 100-1/4 with a 9-5/8 pct coupon, lead manager Warburg Securities said. Fees are 3/8 pct each for management and underwriting and 1-1/4 pct for selling. Payment date is April 9 and listing will be in London. The bonds will be sold in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. REUTER 
CBS ISSUES 400 MLN DLRS IN CONVERTIBLE DEBT

CBS Inc <CBS.N> is issuing 400 mln dlrs of convertible debt due April 7, 2002, with a coupon of five pct and priced at par, said Morgan Stanley Ltd as lead manager. The securities are convertible into shares of CBS at a price of 200 dlrs per share, which represents a premium of 26.2 pct over the company's closing stock price yesterday of 158.50 dlrs on the New York Stock Exchange. The issue is callable in the first three years only if the stock prices rises abouve 130 pct of the conversion level. There is a 1-1/2 pct selling concession and a one pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
OKB ISSUES 100 MLN CANADIAN DLR BOND

Oesterreichishce Kontrollbank AG is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr eurobond due March 20, 1997 at nine pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said as joint book-runner with LTCB International. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprised 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 3/4 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
NEWS INTERNATIONAL BOND INCREASED TO 150 MLN DLRS

A three-year eurobond launched earlier this week for News International Plc <NWSL.L> has been increased to 150 mln dlrs from 100 mln due to good demand, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The bonds pay 7-1/2 pct and were priced at par. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with a further 168 mln stg of assistance to help offset a shortage it now estimated at 1.05 billion stg, revised down from 1.10 billion. It bought 21 mln stg of bank bills outright, 20 mln in band one at 10-3/8 pct and one mln in band two at 10-5/16 pct. In addition, it bought 98 mln stg of bills for resale on March 30 and 49 mln stg for resale April 8 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. All these rates are the same as for today's earlier help. So far today, the bank has provided the market with assistance worth 646 mln stg. The bank also announced the rates applicable to temporary lending facilities rolled over today. The average mid-market rate for lending rolled over for one week is 10-15/16 pct and for two weeks 10-5/8 pct. REUTER 
LIBERALS HOLD TRURO IN U.K. BY-ELECTION

The Liberal party easily won the Truro by-election with almost twice as many votes as its nearest rival, the Press Association news agency reported. The poll in the South-West of England constituency was called after the death of the previous member of parliament, also a member of the Liberal party. Matthew Taylor raised the Liberal majority by winning 30,599 votes. Conservative Nicholas St Aubyn was second with 15,982 while Labour candidate John King polled 3,603. The last by-election, in the London suburb of Greenwich, was won by the Social Democrat-Liberal alliance. REUTER 
LIBERALS HOLD TRURO IN U.K. BY-ELECTION

The Liberal party easily won the Truro by-election with almost twice as many votes as its nearest rival, the Press Association news agency reported. The poll in the South-West of England constituency was called after the death of the previous member of parliament, also a member of the Liberal party. Matthew Taylor raised the Liberal majority by winning 30,599 votes. Conservative Nicholas St Aubyn was second with 15,982 while Labour candidate John King polled 3,603. The last by-election, in the London suburb of Greenwich, was won by the Social Democrat-Liberal alliance. Reuter 
 Top discount rate at U.K. Bill tender falls to 9.3657 pct



ECSC ISSUES 100 MLN STG EUROBOND DUE 1992

The European Coal and Steel Community is issuing a 100 mln stg eurobond due April 6, 1992 paying 9-3/8 pct and priced at 101-5/8 pct, lead manager Warburg Securities said. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting. REUTER 
UK MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED TO ONE BILLION STG

The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's shortfall to one billion stg, before taking account of 646 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 195 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with a further 195 mln stg assistance during the afternoon. This brings total help today to 841 mln stg compared with a liquidity shortage it has estimated at a revised one billion stg. The Bank bought 176 mln stg of band two bank bills outright at 10-5/16 pct and 13 mln stg of band one bank bills at 10-3/8 pct. In addition, it bought four mln stg of bills for resale to the market on March 30 and two mln stg for resale on April 8, at a common interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EMS MARKS EIGHTH BIRTHDAY

The European Monetary System marks its eighth anniversary still vulnerable to turmoil in world money markets despite creating an island of currency rate stability in Europe, economists say. But many economists say the system, which holds eight European Community currencies within narrow fluctuation bands, remains in its infancy. Its new currency, the European Currency Unit (Ecu), has been a runaway success with investors and borrowers alike seeking an alternative to the volatile dollar. And on Wednesday, the long term vision of the Ecu as Europe's common currency took a step nearer to becoming reality when Belgium minted the world's first Ecu coin. But economists say members such as West Germany have so far blocked a second stage of development envisaged by the system's founding fathers, ex-West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing. Under this phase, originally due to have started two years after the EMS was set up, decision-making was to have been transferred from national governments and central banks to an autonomous European Monetary Fund. But members have jealously guarded their sovereignty in economic and monetary matters. "The basic problem of the EMS is that governments are not prepared to make the quantum leap to a situation where certain decisions are taken in common," said one economist who has closely watched the system's development. The result is that the EC is often divided over policy on third currencies, accentuating what the economists say is the system's greatest weakness, its vulnerability to a weak dollar. Over the past 18 months, as the U.S. Dollar plunged and investors moved into strong currencies, the resulting sharp rise of the West German mark severely strained the system. MORE As the mark soared against the dollar, it also rose against EMS currencies less favoured by international investors. And as West Germany last year refused to give in pressure from several EC partners and the United States to cut interest rates to slow the mark's rise, the EMS had to be realigned twice to ease financial and trade strains within the community. Two months ago the mark and the Dutch guilder were revalued by three pct and the Belgian and Luxembourg francs by two pct against other currencies in the system -- the French franc, Italian lira, the Irish punt and Danish crown. Another frustration has been Britain's failure to lend the EMS political support by keeping the pound, still a major world currency, outside the system. No change in the British government's attitude is expected before the country's next general elections, due by mid-1988. Meanwhile, the system's last realignment, the 11th since it was set up, prompted European finance ministers to ask the EC's highly-secretive Monetary Committee and Committee of Central Bank Governors to come up with suggestions for reinforcing it. Their ideas are due to be unveiled when finance ministers hold an informal meeting in Belgium early next month. But economists said the proposals are unlikely to involve more than tinkering with technical details. They are sceptical about the chances for any fundamental change. "Technical measures won't be enough to protect the EMS against external factors such as dollar weakness. For that we must take the step forward to the institutional level," said Leo de Corel of Kredietbank's economic research department. Economists say the system's fortunes now will depend largely on the success of an agreement last month among major industrial nations to stabilise exchange rates. If the dollar resumes its slide the EMS could be in for more turbulence, they predict. REUTER 
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 185 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it gave the money market late, unspecified assistance of around 185 mln stg. This takes the total liquidity injected into the system by the bank today to 1.026 billion stg compared with a shortage it estimated at around one billion stg. Overnight interbank sterling dipped to 10 nine pct after the bank's announcement compared with levels around 10-1/2 pct shortly before and 11-1/4 11 pct initially today, dealers said. REUTER 
NORSK HYDRO EURODOLLAR BOND INCREASED TO 125 MLN

The 10-year eurodollar bond issue launched yesterday for Norsk Hydro at 8-1/4 pct and 101-5/8 pct has been increased to a total of 125 mln dlrs from the original 100 mln amount, Swiss Bank Corp International said as lead. The issue is due on April 9, 1997. REUTER 
MALAYSIA'S AYER HITAM TO BOOST SHARE CAPITAL

Ayer Hitam Tin Dredging Malaysia Bhd said it planned to raise its authorised share capital to 50 mln Malaysian dlrs from the present seven mln by adding 43 mln new shares. The firm also said in a statement it will launch a 6.1 mln dlr bonus issue, to be paid out of unappropriated profit, with stockholders getting one new share for every existing one. It said the issue date will be decided later. Ayer added that it will not pay a dividend for the half year ended December 31, 1986 on the new shares. Reuter 
ORS SEEKS CANADIAN FUNDS FOR HEAVY OIL TEST

<ORS Corp> said <Dominion Securities (Alberta) Inc> has been appointed to offer common shares in a new Canadaina company being organized to exploit heavy oil production opportunities in Canada and Western Europe. ORS said the offer for private sale of the stock being made on a best efforts basis is designed to raise five mln Canadian dlrs which the new company will invest in properties and projects using the Electromagnetic Well Stimulation Process developed by IIT Research Institute under sponsorship of ORS. Reuter 
NEW SOUTH WALES TREASURY CORP LAUNCHES YEN BOND

New South Wales Treasury Corp is issuing 15 billion yen of eurobonds due April 15, 1992, priced at 101-5/8, with a 4-7/8 pct coupon, Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said as book-runner and joint lead manager with Mitsui Trust and Banking Co Ltd. The issue will be guaranteed by New South Wales and will be sold in denominations of one mln yen, with listing in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Payment date is April 15. Co-lead manager is Mitsubishi Finance International Ltd. REUTER 
FRN PANIC INITIATED, EXACERBATED BY MARKET MAKERS

Today's panic in the floating rate note market has been simmering for months and is, in many ways, of the market makers' own doing, traders and bank officials said. "For the last six months, there have been a series of crises in the FRN market. Each has cut deeper and deeper into the very fibre of the market," said a senior official at a U.S. Bank. As prices have fallen, he explained, the underwriters who originally brought the issues have retreated. They have divested themselves of the paper as quickly as possible, unwilling to bear losses of the magnitude seen in recent panic trading. In the virtual effective closure of the market for perpetual floaters last month, bankers witnessed the consequences of this kind of contraction of liquidity and investor confidence. Fears were engendered about the possibility of this crisis infecting the market in conventional dated FRN issues, which is almost 10 times as large as that for perpetuals, with an estimated 130 billion dlrs of debt outstanding. "The professionals are so nervous about holding inventory that they will sell at any price," said an official at a leading U.S. Bank, explaining the panic selling which has pushed prices down sharply over the last two days. Bankers and FRN traders emphasised that today's trading was unique in that it was driven exclusively by professionals and that there was nothing fundamentally wrong with the securities they sold. In highlighting this point, dealers noted that the benchmark issues in the FRN market -- the two FRN's for the U.K., Launched in 1985 and 1986 -- fell an unprecedented 50 and 40 basis points, respectively, at the opening this morning. Certainly, dealers said, Britain is no less credit-worthy today than it was yesterday and the country's economic health currently appears better than it has for some time. Pointing out that this kind of sovereign and supra-national debt had not sagged on any fundamental weakness, one senior FRN source said: "The idiocy of the situation is aptly shown by the fact that these kind of borrowers can now tap the syndicated loan markets at rates lower than their floaters currently pay." Dealers agreed that banking sector paper, which constitutes a significant part of the market, was currently under pressure. Floating rate debt of major U.S. And Canadian banks eased markedly in nervous trading last month on renewed investor fears about the banks' exposure to Latin American debt. The U.S. And Canadian money centre bank FRNs, along with Republic of Ireland paper, were hard hit again this week with dealers citing one heavily-traded Citicorp note falling to levels so low it is now effectively yielding 55 basis points over Libor (the London Interbank Offered Rate). By comparison, the 500 mln dlr note which matures in 1998 yielded only a fine 20 basis point over Libid (the London Interbank Bid Rate) when it was issued in January last year. Price declines of this size can really only be explained by an understanding of the operating practices of leading players in the market, dealers and banking analysts said. "This has to be understood as a matter between banks who have a brief to buy low and sell high," one U.S. Bank source noted. Another senior source at a U.K. Bank drew attention to the enormous overhead costs and high salaries generated over the last few years in the FRN market, which have to be justified. But even beyond the cost of running an FRN trading desk, dealers said, is the way the securities are bought and sold. Although sophisticated on-screen dealing exists in most markets, in the euro-markets trading is conducted by telephone. "If somebody calls you up and asks you to make him a price in any issue, and you do, he can say "Right. You own five mln'," a trader said, explaining market practice. The unfortunate buyer is then forced to unload the securities just minutes later to yet another firm at an even lower price, the trader explained. It is precisely this phenomenon that forced the rapid downward price spiral earlier today, traders said, adding that it is likely to continue until the markets either regain their confidence or market practices change. One possible solution, dealers said, would be to initiate trading exclusively through brokers' screens, so that only those who wanted to buy bonds would have to "lift a bid" or buy at that price. Meanwhile, bank regulators are apparently concerned about the implications of the collapse in FRN prices. Traders in London said that the Bank of England has called around to market makers asking whether they intended to continue trading and what they calculated the losses to be. The Bank often makes periodic checks in the market, but dealers said the latest enquiries were more specific. A spokesman for the Bank of England was not able to comment immediately on the Bank's action. One trader at a major U.S. Bank here said that in addition, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York's international capital markets unit has phoned banks in London today seeking information about trading in FRN's. He also said that this was not an unusual procedure. Reuter 
LIFFE EXECUTIVE GREETS SEC MOVE ON FUTURES TRADE

A decision by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to remove a key regulatory obstacle to trading foreign debt futures on U.S. Exchanges was a constructive development, London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) Chief Executive Michael Jenkins said. The SEC yesterday agreed to remove the regulation against trading futures in designated foreign government debt securities on markets not located in the issuing country. Jenkins said the decision cleared the way for the Chicago Board of Trade possibly to trade U.K. Long gilt futures and a Japanese yen bond contract. The CBOT is now likely to proceed with an application to trade gilts to the Commodity Futures Trading Commmission (CFTC), he said. REUTER 
MIDLAND UNIT PULLS OUT OF EQUITY MARKET MAKING

Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said its Greenwell Montagu Securities unit would pull out of equity market making and concentrate instead on providing a broker dealer and agency service for its clients. The operation has become the first major casualty in the London markets since deregulation last October abolished fixed commissions and allowed the merging of broking and jobbing operations into market making activities. A spokesman said Greenwell Montagu Gilt Edged, which is a primary gilt edged market maker, and Greenwell Montagu stockbrokers, were not affected by the decision. The market making operation had encountered much greater competition than had been expected in the post-Big Bang period, the spokesman added. Although Midland considered that the operation would be viable in the long term, it would require the concentration of greater resources than could be justified for an operation that was not a core Midland activity. He confirmed Greenwell Montagu Securities had been losing money in past months. The pull out from market making would be conducted in an orderly fashion in the near future. There might also be some job losses, he said without giving any details. Market sources said it was no great surprise that a market maker had pulled out, as the intensity of competition had suggested for some time that sooner or later someone would decide to withdraw. They said some retreat by Greenwell had been likely because of its losses, and added there also been speculation that it could pull out of market making in gilts also. The move was unlikely to have any major impact on market confidence, as the occasional speculation in the past few weeks had had little impact. Analysts said commission rates on institutional equity trades have dropped sharply in the five months since deregulation, with some firms covering some of their reduced profits by trading on their own account. In a recent report, Greenwell Montagu Research said, "Those who have made profits are either immensely clever or immensely lucky. Some are already approaching the pain barrier, others are prepared to tough it out. But until some players withdraw from the market, it will be difficult to improve profitability." Dealers said the pace of withdrawals was likely to speed up in the next year, and would intensify if the three-month bull run on the London stock exchange petered out. REUTER 
LIFFE EXECUTIVE GREETS SEC MOVE ON FUTURES TRADE

A decision by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to remove a key regulatory obstacle to trading foreign debt futures on U.S. Exchanges was a constructive development, London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) Chief Executive Michael Jenkins said. The SEC yesterday agreed to remove the regulation against trading futures in designated foreign government debt securities on markets not located in the issuing country. Jenkins said the decision cleared the way for the Chicago Board of Trade possibly to trade U.K. Long gilt futures and a Japanese yen bond contract. The CBOT is now likely to proceed with an application to trade gilts to the Commodity Futures Trading Commmission (CFTC), he said. Reuter 
LOW SUGAR PRICES MAY ATTRACT SOVIET/CHINESE

Any further decline in raw sugar prices is likely to attract buying from the Soviet Union and China, Woodhouse, Drake and Carey said in their latest weekly market report. Present lower terminal values may be a reflection of the lack of renewed prompt offtake, particularly from these two large consumers, the report said. The week has seen good demand for Thai raws, particulary for October/December shipment, which has traded above twenty points premium to the October New York delivery, it said. Reuter 
GOLDMAN SACHS GIVEN BOGUS EXXON BONDS IN TRADE

Goldman Sachs International Corp received forged bonds of a unit of Exxon Corp <XON> in a trade, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs and Co Inc said in a telephone conversation from New York. He said the transaction left Goldman Sachs International with an exposure of about 2.2 mln dlrs but that it had insurance to cover the loss. The spokesman was responding to an enquiry about an item in the London "Standard" newspaper, which said Goldman Sachs "is feared to be the victim of a new multi-million pound City scandal." The newspaper also said, "The firm (Goldman Sachs) is believed to be the paying agent for some 900 bonds issued in the name of oil giant Exxon which were deposited at banks in Brussels and have now been found to be forgeries." The spokesman said that the bonds were delivered to the firm by a man working on behalf of a third party. He said it wasn't until the bonds were cleared through Euro-clear (a major clearing house for the eurobond market) that it was discovered they were forgeries. The spokesman also said he believed that the intermediary had been apprehended by police. However, a spokesman for the City of London police said he was unaware of such an arrest and could neither confirm nor deny it. Last Friday, Exxon Corp said forgeries of a 20-year zero coupon euronote issued by its Exxon Capital Corp subsidiary have been discovered in the European market. It also said Morgan Guaranty Trust Co was the fiscal agent and paying agent and that Morgan, Euro-clear and Cedel (another major clearing system) and police in London and Brussels were investigating the case. Reuter 
EDF TO LAUNCH EURO-CP PROGRAM MONDAY

<Electricite de France> (EdF) will make its first offering of Euro-commercial paper in the international market on Monday, EdF chief financial officer Daniel Lallier said in a telephone call from Paris. The program was announced in late January and dealers expect the company will be pushing to maintain its ability to obtain some of the finest terms available in the international markets. Lallier did not say how much would be offered, although he has noted that EDF would be cautious because it believes the market is still in its infancy. In January he said EdF may not issue more than 300 to 500 mln dlrs of paper this year. EdF plans to oversee the program itself, with Goldman Sachs International Corp, Morgan Guaranty Ltd and Salomon Brothers International Ltd acting as dealers for the general program, which will be aimed at institutional and retail investors. Union Bank of Switzerland will act as dealer for a specific program, which is aimed at smaller retail investors. Reuter 
INDIA TO GET U.K. COAL, STEEL INDUSTRY GRANTS

India will get 104.65 mln stg as grants from Britain to develop its coal, zinc and lead industries, the British Information Services said in a statement. It said a 31 mln stg grant would be disbursed over three to four years under an agreement signed here yesterday between the Indian Finance Ministry and the British Overseas Development Administration. The British grants for developing the Indian coal industry using British mechanised longwall technology totalled 52 mln stg in the past 10 years, it said. Under a separate agreement, the British government agreed to provide 73.65 mln stg as a grant to develop a zinc and lead mine at Rampura-Agucha and an associated smelting complex at Chaneriya, both in India's northern state of Rajasthan, the statement said. The grant will finance the basic engineering for the smelter complex to be undertaken by Britain's <Davy McKee> of Stockton. It will also help develop the mine complex, it added. REUTER 
THATCHER PARTY HAS NINE POINT POLL LEAD

Britain's ruling Conservatives have a nine point lead over the main opposition Labour Party, their biggest in two years, according to an opinion poll published in the Sunday Times. The MORI poll's findings come as the latest in a series of setbacks for Labour and are bound to encourage talk that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher may call a general election in June. The poll gives the Conservatives a rating of 41 pct against 32 pct for Labour and 25 pct for the centrist Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance -- enough to give Thatcher an overall majority of 46 seats in the 650-seat House of Commons. The poll, which follows a survey by Marplan last week giving the Conservatives a six-point lead over Labour, shows how dramatically the fortunes of Britain's two largest parties have changed over the past six months. As recently as September, Labour was still ahead in opinion polls and was looking forward to forming Britain's next government. Since then, it has been beset by inner wrangling and its popularity among Britain's voters has tumbled. Morale among Labour politicians slumped further last month when the party lost a key by-election in Greenwich, south London -- a seat which Labour had held for 50 years. REUTER 
EKSPORTFINANS LAUNCHES EUROBOND

Eksportfinans A/S of Norway is issuing 15 billion yen in eurobonds due April 23, 1992 priced at 103 with a five pct coupon, Mitsubishi Finance International Ltd said as lead manager. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting. Payment date is April 23. Listing will be in London and the bonds will be sold in denominations of one mln yen. REUTER 
COUPON SET, AMOUNT INCREASED ON METAL BOX EUROBOND

The amount of a convertible eurobond launched on Friday for Metal Box Plc <MBXL.L> has been increased to 65 mln stg from the original 60 mln and the coupon has been fixed at 5-3/4 pct, Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd said as lead manager. The conversion price has been fixed at 262p, which represents a premium of 9.62 pct over Friday's closing share price of 239p. The indicated coupon on Friday was 5-3/4 to six pct. REUTER 
EUROPEAN BEET PLANTINGS SEEN LITTLE CHANGED

European sugar beet plantings are expected to show little change from last year, despite recent firmness in world prices, analysts and industry sources said. A Reuter survey of planting intentions showed that while, so far, European Community (EC) growers plan unchanged to lower areas, increases are expected in some Eastern European nations. Trade analysts said their private reports give similar results and do not differ significantly from the first estimate of stagnant 1987 European beet plantings made last week by West German sugar statistician F. O. Licht. Areas may be slightly lower but analysts and agricultural experts said the steady rise in yields resulting from improved seed varieties and better farming techniques could offset this. In recent years, good autumn weather has given yields a late boost, making up for lower areas despite some disappointing starts to growing seasons. Changes in EC areas reflect the extent to which producers will grow so-called "C" sugar for unsubsidised sale to the world market. This is what is produced in excess of the basic area needed to meet the EC "A" and "B" quotas, which receive full and partial price support, respectively. Some analysts said the open row that broke out last week between producers and the EC commission over its export policy could have serious implications for future sugar output. Beet producers have threatened to effectively dump nearly one mln tonnes of white sugar into EC intervention stocks as they feel export subsidies have been too low to compensate for the gap between high EC internal and low world market prices. However, with the EC budget stretched to breaking point, this could give treasury ministers extra resolve in resisting higher guaranteed sugar prices and build a case for a future cut in the basic "A" and "B" quotas, they added. In France, the largest producer of EC quota and non quota sugar, the sugar market intervention board FIRS said first planting intentions indicate an area about the same as last year's 421,000 hectares, nine pct below the previous year. "The basic trend is towards stability," a FIRS spokesman said. Unlike world market raw sugar prices in dollars, white sugar French franc prices are not particularly high and are not encouraging higher planting levels, he said. Beet sugar output last year was 3.37 mln tonnes, with an average yield of 8.00 tonnes per ha, the highest in the EC apart from the Netherlands but below 8.52 the previous year and a five year average 8.11. In West Germany, recent price rises have not altered plans, since planting decisions were taken a few months ago, industry sources said. The farm ministry said a December survey is still valid and plantings should be cut slightly after being trimmed by just under four pct in 1986 when yields were above average. Licht last week estimated West German plantings at a reduced 385,000 hectares against 399,000 last year. British Sugar Plc, the monopoly beet processor, has signed up U.K. Farmers to grow 8.1 mln tonnes of beet. This should yield about 1.25 mln tonnes of whites. Last year's crop equalled the second highest ever at 1.32 mln tonnes. British Sugar has "A" and "B" quotas totalling 1.144 mln tonnes of whites and its "C" output is due to improved yields from more consistent disease-resistant seed types. Recent price rises have not altered Polish plans, Wincenty Nowicki, a deputy director of Cukropol, the Amalgamated Sugar Industry Enterprises, said. World prices are still below Polish production costs and there is no way to convince farmers to increase the area above the already signed contracted level. The national plan, set before prices began to rise, put plantings this year at 460,000 hectares, against 425,000 in 1986, Nowicki said. Last year production was 1.74 mln tonnes. World prices have less impact in Italy than in France or Germany as it is traditionally not an exporter but is geared to the domestic market, an official at the national beet growers' association said. Italian sowings are not yet complete but surveys suggest a drop from last year's 270,000 ha, especially in the north where some farmers have switched to soya. Beet output last season of 15.5 mln tonnes yielded a higher than expected 1.72 mln tonnes of white sugar. Dutch plantings are expected to fall to 130,000 ha from a record 137,600 in 1986 as a new self-imposed quota system comes into force, a spokesman for Centrale Suiker, the second largest Dutch sugar processor, said. The new system aims for an average of around 915,000 tonnes of white sugar and to cut output of "C" sugar. Last year, the Netherlands produced a record 1.2 mln tonnes of white sugar against a combined "A" and "B" quota of only 872,000 tonnes. "The world price of sugar would have to rise much higher than it has done recently to make planned production of "C" sugar really worthwhile," the spokesman said. Western agricultural experts in Moscow said Soviet planting intentions are likely to be unchanged. Licht put this year's Soviet beet area at 3.40 mln ha, against 3.44 mln last year. Hungary is expanding its beet area to 105,000 ha from some 95,000 in 1986, the official MTI news agency said, but diplomats said policy is to balance supply with domestic demand. The Spanish ministry of agriculture said beet sowings are estimated unchanged at 180,000 ha this year. A spokesman for Denmark's largest beet concern, De Danske Sukkerfabrikker A/S, said its 1987 sugar target was unchanged from 1986 at 365,000 tonnes from a steady area of 60,000 ha. In Sweden, where beet is grown just to meet domestic demand, the planted area is seen little changed at 51,000 ha against 51,300 last year, according to a spokesman for sugar company Svenska Sockerfabriks AB. Last year, Irish yields were the lowest for 10 years due to late sowings and the state-run Irish Sugar Plc said the 1987 plantings target is the equivalent of 36,400 hectares, down from 37,600 in 1986. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it invited an early round of bill offers from discount houses after forecasting a shortage in the system of some 1.05 billion stg. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and treasury bill take-up will drain some 1.07 billion stg while exchequer transactions will take out around 335 mln stg and bankers' balances below target five mln stg. Partly offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulation will add some 355 mln stg to the system today. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 90 MLN STG EARLY HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with assistance worth 90 mln stg in response to an early round of bill offers from discount houses. Earlier, the bank estimated the shortage in the system today at some 1.05 billion stg. The bank bought bills for resale to the market in equal amounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER 
UK FEB RETAIL SALES RISE PROVISIONAL 2.2 PCT (JAN FALL 2.2 PCT) - OFFICIAL



U.K. RETAIL SALES RISE 2.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The volume of U.K. Retail sales rose a provisional, seasonally adjusted 2.2 pct in February after falling a final 2.2 pct in January, figures released by the Department of Trade and Industry show. The February sales index, base 1980, was put at a preliminary 125.0 after a final 122.3 in January. In the three months from December to February, the level of sales was little changed over the previous three months but was nearly six pct higher than the same year ago period. On a non-seasonally adjusted value basis, retail sales in February were a provisional 9.0 pct higher than a year earlier. The Department noted the latest figures were similar to the average in the fourth quarter last year but well above the January index, which was depressed by the effects of severe weather. The February trading period comprised the four weeks February 1 to 28. Final February retail sales figures will be published on April 6. REUTER 
COCOA LATEST FOCUS FOR COMMODITY PACT NEGOTIATORS

The credibility of government efforts to stabilise fluctuating commodity prices will again be put to the test over the next two weeks as countries try to agree on how a buffer stock should operate in the cocoa market, government delegates and trade experts said. Only two weeks ago, world coffee prices slumped when International Coffee Organization members failed to agree on how coffee export quotas should be calculated. This week, many of the same experts gather in the same building here to try to agree on how the cocoa pact reached last summer should work. The still unresolved legal wrangle surrounding the International Tin Council (ITC), which had buffer stock losses running into hundreds of millions of sterling, is also casting a shadow over commodity negotiations. The ITC's failure has restricted negotiators' ability to compromise as governments do not want to be involved in pacts with built-in flaws or unlimited liability, but want clear lines drawn between aid and trade. A more hopeful sign of cooperation was agreement on basic elements of a new International Natural Rubber Agreement in Geneva at the weekend. Some importing countries insist the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock rules must not be muddied with quota type subclauses which might dictate the type of cocoa to be bought. One consumer country delegate said this would "distort, not support" the market. Trade and industry sources blame uncertainty about the ICCO for destabilising the market as the recent collapse in coffee prices has made traders acutely aware that commodity pacts can founder. On Friday this uncertainty helped push London cocoa futures down to eight month lows. The strength of sterling has also contributed to the recent slip in prices. The ICCO daily and average prices on Friday fell below the "must buy" level of 1,600 SDRs a tonne designated in the pact, which came into force at the last ICCO session in January but without rules for the operation of the buffer stock. Consumers and producers could not agree on how it should operate and what discretion it should be given. The agreement limits it to trading physical cocoa and expressly says it cannot operate on futures markets. A cash balance of some 250 mln dlrs and a stock of almost 100,000 tonnes of cocoa, enough to mount large buying or selling operations, were carried forward from the previous agreement. Members finance the stock through a 45 dlrs a tonne levy on all cocoa they trade. It has an upper limit of 250,000 tonnes. The key arguments being faced by the ICCO working group on buffer stock rules which is meeting today and tomorrow will be over non-member cocoa and differentials the buffer stock should pay when trading different types of cocoa. Another working group is scheduled to meet Wednesday to discuss administrative matters, and the full council meets on Thursday. Producers have so far maintained that buffer stock funds should not help mop up surplus cocoa produced in non-member countries such as Malaysia. Consumers say when this cocoa is the cheapest the buffer stock should buy it rather than compete with chocolate manufacturers for premium-priced high quality cocoas. The argument over buying non-member cocoa is closely linked to the one over differentials for different qualities. European industry and trade advisers have suggested as a compromise that the buffer stock have a maximum share that can represent non-member cocoa and that it use the London futures market's existing differentials for different qualities. Currently, good West African cocoa is tendered at par onto the London market. Discounts, which are currently under review, range up to 50 stg a tonne for Brazilian and Malaysian cocoa. Consumer delegates said the same arguments in reverse would operate when prices are high - the buffer stock should sell the highest priced cocoa in most demand, forcing all prices lower. The January talks were slowed by a split inside the European Community, a key ICCO consumer group, with France siding with producers. EC representatives met in closed session in Brussels on Friday in an attempt to reach a common ground and, a diplomatic source said, narrowed the range of positions among the 12 nations. The source said the EC will be looking for signs of flexibility on the part of producers in the next few days and will be able to respond if they are there. One ICCO delegate describing the producer/consumer split said consumer proposals mean buying more cocoa for less and backs the concept of the pact which is "meant to support the market where trade buying is not." In contrast, he said, producers seem to want to sell their cocoa to the buffer stock rather than consumers. Other, more technical, issues still outstanding include whether the buffer stock should buy at a single announced "posted price" as in the previous pact or by announcing it is buying then accepting offers. In either case, delegates said, it is accepted that producers must be given a clear opportunity to make offers of cocoa for forward shipment directly to the buffer stock in a way that is competitive with spot offers made by dealers. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST REVISED UPWARDS

The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage in the money market today up to 1.15 billion stg before taking account of its early operations. Earlier, the bank forecast the deficit at 1.05 billion stg and gave 90 mln stg assistance at an early round of bill offers. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 30 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with a further 30 mln stg assistance. This brings the Bank's total help so far today to 120 mln stg and compares with its upward revised estimate that the system would face a shortage of some 1.15 billon stg. The central bank bought bills for resale to the market in equal amounts on April 1, 2 and 3 at an interest rate of 10-7/16 pct. REUTER 
PHILIPS DUPONT UNIT ARRANGES 145 MLN DLR CREDIT

Philips DuPont Optical Co is arranging a 145 mln dlr, three-year transferable loan facility, Chemical Bank International Ltd said as agent. The financing involves a 70 mln dlr loan which is available for drawing in the six months after signing and a 75 mln dlr revolving credit, which is available for the life of the credit. Drawings under both tranches will be at 17.5 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate. There will be a utilisation fee of five basis points on the revolving credit if more than 50 pct is used and a commitment fee of 7.5 basis points. Borrowings will be available in currencies other than dollars and banks have been invited to join as lead managers at 15 mln dlrs for 7.5 basis points and as managers at 7.5 mln dlrs for five basis points. The borrower is an optical disk joint venture between Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken NV and E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and Co. REUTER 
U.K. AND GERMANY LEAD ATTACK ON EC FARM REFORMS

Britain and West Germany told their European Community partners they would strongly oppose major elements of proposals to rid the EC of its farm surpluses. At a meeting of EC foreign ministers, Britain called for a full debate on a proposed tax on edible oils and fats that has already angered EC consumer groups and unleashed Washington-led protests from exporters to the EC, diplomats said. West Germany, also opposed to the oils and fats tax, will advise the meeting formally later today it cannot countenance other proposals that could hit German farmers, they added. They said West Germany's objections were put in a letter this weekend from Chancellor Helmut Kohl to Jacques Delors, the president of the EC's Executive Commission which had put forward the proposals last month in a bid to avoid a new EC cash crisis. Kohl reiterated German objections to proposed cereals production curbs but reserved his harshest criticism for a proposed dismantling of Monetary Compensatory Amounts (MCAs) - a system of cross-border subsidies and taxes which level out foreign exchange fluctuations for farm exports. Kohl made clear the dismantling would mainly hit German farmers who, without MCAs, would find it much more difficult to export to weaker currency states, which means virtually all other 11 EC states, diplomats said. Britain initiated the discussion on the proposal to impose a hefty tax on domestic and imported oils and fats because it could seriously damage EC trade relations. The diplomats said the United States had been the most outspoken among foreign critics of the proposal, describing it as a breach of the EC's obligations under the world trade body GATT. But protests had also come from other exporters to the EC, such as Senegal, Malaysia, Indonesia, Brazil, Argentina, Iceland and Norway, they added. Britain has often lined up against West Germany on the farm reform issue in the past but is keen to avoid measures that could spark a damaging trade war with the U.S. Foreign ministers were unlikely to take a decision on either the oils and fats tax or the MCA proposals today, diplomats said. But their discussion should make clear that neither has a chance of surviving when it comes up for substantive consideration by EC farm ministers later this month, they added. REUTER 
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CORP ISSUES EUROYEN BOND

Export Development Corp is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due August 28, 1992 paying 4-1/2 pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct, lead manager Bank of Tokyo International said. The bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
INDONESIA HAS IMPORTED PALM OIL, TRADERS SAY

Indonesia has imported palm oil this year and is likely to take more, trade sources said. They were commenting on a weekend Jakarta report quoting a Ministry of Trade spokesman as saying Indonesia had not issued licences to import the commodity. He also said there was no sign of a shortage of palm oil in Indonesia. A major palm oil dealer said he shipped Malaysian palm oil to Indonesia in February, additional vessels were loading this month and other vessels had been earmarked for April. Other operators claimed they had palm oil booked for Indonesia but would not disclose tonnages. Traders said palm oil production in Indonesia this year had been below expectations and current stocks were low. They said licences were issued at the start of the year to import crude palm oil but were subsequently revised to include RBD olein and RBD oil. Last week there were rumours in European markets that Indonesia had issued licences to import around 135,000 tonnes of palm oil for deliveries commencing April. An Indonesian Ministry of Trade official said this was incorrect. Some traders here said the total could be more. Others said they could include those issued earlier this year and applications not yet granted. Reuter 
THATCHER PARTY HAS NINE POINT POLL LEAD

Britain's ruling Conservatives have a nine point lead over the main opposition Labour Party, their biggest in two years, according to an opinion poll published yesterday in the Sunday Times. The MORI poll's findings were the latest in a series of setbacks for Labour and are bound to encourage talk that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher may call a general election in June. The poll gives the Conservatives a rating of 41 pct against 32 pct for Labour and 25 pct for the centrist Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance -- enough to give Thatcher an overall majority of 46 seats in the 650-seat House of Commons. The poll follows a survey by Marplan last week giving the Conservatives a six-point lead over Labour. Reuter 



ARGYLL GROUP CREDIT FACILITY OVERSUBSCRIBED

A 75 mln stg revolving credit contained in a 100 mln stg multiple facility for Argyll Group Plc has been oversubscribed in syndication and the borrower is considering an increase, banking sources said. The facility will allow Argyll to issue sterling acceptances and multi-currency advances and domestic sterling advances. There will be a facility fee of 7.5 basis points on the available part of the facility and a fee of five basis points on the reserved part. There is a front end fee of 1/32 and a utilisation fee of five basis points if more than 50 pct of the revolving credit is drawn. There will be a tender panel for the acceptances and advances. However, Argyll will have the option to raise funds through an issuer set placement, under which the underwriters can take up to their available commitment under the standby. The available tranche will be determined by Argyll on an annual basis. Drawings under the five year facility will be subject to a cap rate of 1/8 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate or acceptance commission. Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd is lead manager and agent. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 550 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late assistance of around 550 mln stg. This takes the Bank's total help today to some 1.12 billion stg and compares with its estimated deficit of around 1.10 billion. REUTER 
KAWASAKI STEEL ISSUES NOVEL 30 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Kawasaki Steel International Finance Plc is issuing a stepped coupon 30 mln dlr eurobond due March 26, 1994 priced at 101-7/8 pct, lead manager Wako International Europe Ltd said. The deal, guaranteed by Mitsui Trust and Banking Co Ltd, will carry a seven pct coupon in year one, rising to 8.44 pct in the final year. Payment date is March 26. The bond is available in denominations of 100,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees were not disclosed but a Wako official confirmed the deal was a targetted issue. REUTER 
COCOA CONSUMERS NARROW GAP ON BUFFER STOCK ISSUE

Representatives of cocoa consuming countries at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting here have edged closer to a unified stance on buffer stock rules, delegates said. While consumers do not yet have a common position, an observer said after a consumer meeting, "They are much more fluid ... and the tone is positive." European Community consumers were split on the question of how the cocoa buffer stock should be operated when the ICCO met in January to put the new International Cocoa Agreement into effect, delegates said. At the January meeting, France sided with producers on how the buffer stock should operate, delegates said. That meeting ended without agreement on new buffer stock rules. The EC Commission met in Brussels on Friday to see whether the 12 EC cocoa consuming nations could narrow their differences at this month's meeting. The Commissioners came away from the Friday meeting with an informal agreement to respond to signs of flexibility among producers on the key buffer stock issues, delegates said. The key issues to be addressed at this council session which divide ICCO members are whether non-member cocoa should be eligible for buffer stock purchases and what price differentials the buffer stock should pay for different types of cocoa, delegates said. A consumer delegate said producers and consumers should be able to compromise on the non-member cocoa question. A working group comprising delegates from all producing and consuming member countries met briefly this morning, then broke up into a producer meeting and an EC meeting, followed by a consumer meeting. Producers, who are in favour of the buffer stock buying a variety of grades of cocoa and oppose non-member cocoa being accepted, reviewed their position ahead of the working group meeting this afternoon. "We are waiting to see what consumers say," a producer delegate said. "We hope they will be flexible or it will be difficult to negotiate." The ICCO comprises 33 member countries. Non- members include the U.S., a consumer, and Malaysia, an increasingly important producer. Reuter 
PLESSEY WINS TEN MLN STG PAYPHONE ORDERS

The Plessey Co Plc <PLYL.L> said it won initial orders for more than 10 mln stg for "intelligent' coin and cashless payphones from seven European telephone administrations. The major orders were from Sweden's <Televerket>, Spain's <Telefonica SA> and British Telecommunications Plc <BTY.L>. It said that the Finnish PTT had also invited the company to install a field trial for Finland. Sales executive Peter Findlay told reporters that Plessey was negotiating on further contracts with several other countries. Reuter 
BZW MAKES MARKETS IN JAPAN DOLLAR CONVERTIBLES

Barclays De Zoete Wedd Ltd said it today began market-making in Japanese convertible eurobonds denominated in dollars. This venture will be followed within a few months by the establishment of a trading operation for Japanese U.S. Dollar-denominated equity warrant issues. Director in charge of the Japanese convertible operation is Kelvin Saunders, who said the desk was currently staffed by seven traders and salespeople. This number would be doubled with the addition of the equity warrant operation, "an even more important element in the current market environment," he said. REUTER 
U.K. AIRPORT AUTHORITY TO BE PRIVATISED IN SUMMER

formerly the British Airports Authority - is to be privatised in June or July of this year, Transport Secretary John Moore told Parliament. He said BAA's 7,000 employees would each be given free shares in BAA worth a nominal 100 stg. Employees would also receive two free shares for each purchased, up to a maximum of 400 stg worth of free shares. BAA runs London's Heathrow and Gatwick airports, Stansted and the Scottish airports. The flotation is to be managed by <Country Bank Ltd>. Private studies have put total proceeds of the BAA sell-off at just over one billion stg, analysts said. Reuter 
U.K. BANKING HEAD RESUMES ATTACK ON CITY PREDATORS

The Governor of the Bank of England, Robin Leigh-Pemberton, repeated his criticism of City predators, describing them as "thoroughly irresponsible." "I have been concerned when predators have sought to use a minority shareholding to unsettle a perfectly well-managed company and to create an atmosphere in which a bid becomes daily expected," he said in a speech to the Industrial Society. "Such activity can amount to a thoroughly irresponsible exercise of shareholder power, and an abuse of the arrangements we have for the protection of shareholders' interests," he said. Leigh-Pemberton was resuming a theme he developed in a speech last week, when he attacked the practice of "putting a company into play." This is when predators use a minority shareholding to force a company's management into action which will raise the company's share price. The predator then withdraws, taking substantial profits. In today's speech, Leigh-Pemberton said it was hard to find the right tightrope to walk between intervention and adherence to a free market philosophy. REUTER 
TORONTO SUN EXAMINING POSSIBLE U.K. TABLOID

<Toronto Sun Publishing Corp> said it was examining an idea for a new tabloid newspaper in Britain after being being approached about the concept by a person in England it declined to indentify. "We were talking to this individual and offered to help him in effect formulate his concept and that is about as far as it has gone," Toronto Sun Publishing vice-president of finance Bruce Jackson said in reply to a query. "We have not decided anything," Jackson added. "It has not been brought to the board of directors for any kind of approval or heavy discussion." Jackson said that Toronto Sun recently produced a dummy newspaper for the individual to use in testing possible British market reaction. Toronto Sun publishes tabloids in Toronto, Edmonton and Calgary, Alberta and the Houston Post. Asked about possible financial or editorial support by Toronto Sun, Jackson replied: "It is far too premature to discuss anything like that." He said further developments were unlikely to unfold for "at least a month." Jackson described the British tabloid market as "very competitive, but it is a very large market as well. It most likely doesn't take a large market share to be profitable there as long as you find the right niche." He said Toronto Sun is approached almost every month about ideas for starting newspapers, mostly in North America, "as the Toronto Sun is known to be a newspaper group that has started papers. "Unfortunately, this one leaked out and it probably attracted a little more attention than it really deserves at this point," Jackson said. Toronto Sun recently dropped plans to start a second English language newspaper in Montreal, citing a study that indicated the lack of a sufficient advertising base for such a paper. Reuter 
BIFFEX MEMBERS TO BALLOT ON MERGER

Members of the Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX) are to be balloted at the end of this week on whether it will merge with the London Commodity Exchange or come under a new umbrella of Baltic futures exchanges, a BIFFEX official said. The final decision will be left with the BIFFEX board, which will meet at the end of this month, he said. Last week three exchanges currently trading on the Baltic Exchange, the London Potato Futures Association, the GAFTA Soya Bean Meal Futures Association and the London Meat Futures Exchange, instructed legal advisers to implement a merger. Reuter 
FLOATING RATE NOTE MARKET STILL IN TURMOIL

The market in floating rate notes showed no clear signs of recovery today from the confusion which sent prices tumbling and paralysed trading at the end of last week, dealers and bank officials said. FRN dealers said at least 10 houses did not open for business with many market operators pausing to assess their next steps in the wake of Friday's huge drops and panic trading. Despite some late signs that prices were recovering last week, today's erratic trade provided a similarly mixed final picture with longer-dated FRNs still clearly under pressure. While FRN specialists noted that paper on which coupons are shortly due to be refixed had managed to hold up today, as had notes paying a relatively higher margin, longer term FRNs were still subject to intense selling pressure. "Anything longer than 10 years is still being sold off seriously, as is just about any paper in the banking sector," one FRN market source at a leading U.S. House said. He noted that one long-dated Citicorp issue -- paper which has suffered recently on fears over Latin American debt exposure -- slipped by two points to around 94.00. FRNs, whose coupons are refixed regularly, usually trade around par. U.S. And Canadian bank paper was still generally under pressure, as was Republic of Ireland paper, due to renewed worries about the Irish economic situation. The malaise was felt through the banking sector with a two point fall registered by one BNP note, to give a three point drop over two trading days. Retail clients, usually seen returning to the market as price falls push yield margins up to these attractive levels, have been unnerved by the last three days' panic, dealers said. "Yes, there's been some bargain hunting, but no one dares to be first to come seriously back in," said one dealer. "A handful of market giants have frightened the retail away with this aggressive manipulation. As true liquidity drains, we are going to have to see some better market cooperation and rationalisation," commented one FRN trader now dealing with straight bond issues since the floater market crisis. This view was shared by the majority of FRN market sources polled by Reuters since trade began to collapse last week. Of the 50 or so houses who have up until now made a market in floaters, dealers estimated that around a dozen did not quote FRN prices today and they reported that one or two houses were not expected to resume trade in the securities at all. Many called meetings to assess the current market situation. "Given the potential volatility of this market -- one which has been conclusively proved by the events of the last days -- senior management are now duty bound to revise the set of parameters within which they, as market makers, are now to work," commented one senior source at a leading U.K. Investment house. However, there were no reports that a formal crisis meeting of market makers -- such as that called in December last year during the perpetual FRN market collapse -- was on the cards. Several firms were expected to cut back drastically on the list of FRNs traded, with most volatile paper first to go. Elsewhere in the eurobond market, business was extremely quiet, with virtually no activity seen in the dollar straight sector which has been becalmed of late, traders said. "There has been no real two-way business today, neither has there been any new issues for diversion," noted one trader. "All we have seen today is some squaring up of positions," she added. Investors remain cautious of the dollar, which though recently stable, still has potential downside risk. Eurosterling, the market sector which, aside from the FRNs, has been in the headlines lately, was quiet today ahead of the U.K. Government budget due to be announced tomorrow. Undertone was very firm with dealers expecting a positive fiscal package tomorrow and, if not more good economic news to boost sterling, at least confirmation of the bull factors which have bolstered eurosterling and gilt-edged bonds lately. "It was just sit and wait today but I expect it will be full steam ahead on Wednesday," commented one sterling market source. Prices showed gains to 1/8 to 3/8 point across the board. Dealers said several new eurosterling issues were currently in the pipeline and an early issue is expected to be for a major European bank which currently has a mandate in the market. In other sectors, euroyen also maintained its firm tone. Although the market is expected to be resting until trading switches to an April value date, the euroyen sector is expected to be buoyed by some professional switching out of Japanese government bonds into relatively cheaper euroyen bonds. Two new yen issues were features on an otherwise quiet primary market. Both for 15 billion yen due 1992, the first for Eksportfinans was at five pct and 103 pct, led by Mitsubishi Finance International. The second for Export Development Corp at 4-1/2 pct and 101-7/8 pct led by Bank of Tokyo International. The day's only other feature was a targetted 30 mln dlr stepped coupon deal for Kawasaki Steel due 1994. REUTER 
ROWNTREE CONVERTIBLE INCREASED, TERMS SET

A 15 year convertible bond for Rowntree Mackintosh Plc has been increased to 69 mln stg from the original 55 mln and the coupon set at 4-1/2 pct against an indicated 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 pct, lead manager J. Henry Schroder Bank said. The conversion price was set at 557p, representing a premium of 14.3 pct over the stock's closing price for the last three business days of 496p. The put option will be at 125 pct to yield 8.7 pct. REUTER 
GOTAAS-LARSEN <GOTLF> TO BUILD FIFTH CARRIER

Gotaas-Larsen Shipping Corp said it had exercised an option to build a fifth in a series of crude oil carriers to be constructed by <Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery Ltd> in South Korea. Reuter 
ICCO TO EXAMINE BUFFER STOCK PROPOSAL TOMORRROW

The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council adjourned after presenting divergent producer and consumer views on buffer stock rules and agreeing to examine a draft compromise proposal on the buffer stock issue tomorrow, delegates said. ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn will draw up what some delegates called a "pre-compromise" and present it to the buffer stock working group at 1130 hrs GMT Tuesday, they said. While consumer and producer member nations disagree how a buffer stock should be implemented, both sides reiterated they were willing to compromise to come to agreement, they said. "I am optimistic we will be able to come to an agreement -- maybe not tomorrow or the next day, but some time later in the session," a consumer delegate said. Producers say they want the buffer stock to consist only of ICCO member cocoa, comprise a representative basket of various grade cocoas and pay different prices for different grades, delegates said. Some consumers would rather the buffer stock manager be able to buy non-member cocoa also, and pay a single price for the buffer stock cocoa without respect to origin. Consumer members were not unified in their views on how the buffer stock should operate, with several countries backing different aspects of the producer stance, delegates said. The semi-annual council meeting is scheduled to run until March 27. Consideration of the buffer stock rules is the most controversial topic on the agenda, delegates said. Reuter 
EC AGREES ON AID PACKAGE FOR MEDITERRANEAN STATES

European Community (EC) foreign ministers have agreed on an aid package of loans and grants totalling more than 1.6 billion European Currency Units (Ecu) for states in the southern and eastern Mediterranean region. The five-year accord increases aid to the states, Tunisia, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco, Algeria, Egypt and Syria, by about 60 pct from the previous pact, Belgian Foreign Minister Leo Tindemans told a news conference. The EC's executive Commission had proposed a package of more than 1.7 billion Ecus, about 70 pct more than the last aid deal, but West Germany and Britain called for the rise to be kept to 30 pct. The package includes 615 mln Ecus in cash grants from the EC, while just over one billion Ecus will be made available in loans from the European Investment Bank, the EC's long-term investment arm. Details of how the money is to be distributed will be worked out by EC officials. Syria, while still officially included on the list, will not receive any money unless EC ministers specifically agree to it. The EC last year imposed sanctions against Syria because of its alleged role in the attempted bombing of an Israeli airliner. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 450 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 650 mln stg while banker's balances below target will take out around 50 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions and a fall in note circulation will add some 200 mln stg and 50 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 
MERITOR SAVINGS BANK LAUNCHES 200 MLN DLR BOND

Meritor Savings Bank, a U.S. Savings and loan, is issuing 200 mln dlrs of collateralised eurobonds due April 14, 1992 priced at 101-3/8, with a 7-1/2 pct coupon, lead manager Goldman Sachs International Corp said. The issue is non-callable and is collateralised by U.S. Treasury and agency securities and cash and will be offered in targetted registered form. The bonds will be sold in denominations of 5,000 and 10,000 dlrs and listed in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Payment is April 14. REUTER 
SWEDISH EXPORT CREDIT LAUNCHES AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Swedish Export Credit (SEK) has launched a novel 220 mln Australian dlr bond which will give the investor the option of receiving interest and principal in Australian dollars or marks, Warburg Securities said as lead manager. The issue is a five-year bullet, maturing March 26, 1992, and carries a coupon of 7-1/2 pct and is priced at 101-3/4. The coupon will be paid 75 pct in Australian dlrs, with the investor having the option to receive the balance in Australian dlrs or marks. Redemption at maturity is at par, when 50 pct will be paid in Australian dlrs and again the investor will be able to opt for the balance in one of the two currencies. The exchange rate has been fixed at 1.24 Australian dlrs to the mark. Fees total two pct and are divided 1-3/8 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. The bonds will be sold in denominations of 500,000 Australian dlrs and listing will be in Luxembourg. Payment is March 26. The lead manager noted that the issue already has been pre-placed in Europe and the Far East. It is believed to be the largest ever issue denominated in Australian dlrs. REUTER 
GMAC CANADA UNIT ISSUES CANADIAN DOLLAR BOND

General Motors Acceptance Corp Canada is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr eurobond due October 15, 1992 paying 8-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Union Bank of Switzerland Securities Ltd said. The bond, guaranteed by parent General Motors Acceptance Corp, is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date on the issue if April 15, 1987 and the first coupon will be short. Fees for the issue comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
KOBEYA BAKING HAS SWISS FRANC PRIVATE PLACEMENT

Kobeya Baking Co Ltd is planning a private placement of 10 mln Swiss franc notes paying 4-5/8 pct and priced at 100-1/8 pct, lead manager The Long Term Credit Bank of Japan (Schweiz) AG said. The notes, due March 31, 1992, will be guaranteed by the Sumitomo Trust and Banking Co Ltd and the Sumitomo Bank Ltd. The notes may be redeemed on September 30, 1989 at 101-1/4 pct declining by 1/2 pct per annum thereafter. Denominations will be 50,000 francs and payment is due March 31. REUTER 
U.K. FEBRUARY PSBR REPAYMENT 300 MLN STG

Britain's Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) showed a provisional net repayment of 300 mln stg in February, compared with an unrevised 3.7 billion stg repayment in January, the Treasury said. This gives a cumulative PSBR in the first 11 months of the current fiscal year of 100 mln stg, compared with a 2.7 billion requirement in the like period last year. The government's forecast for the PSBR in fiscal 1986/87 is 7.1 billion stg, but markets expect a significant undershoot on this number. The February data was within market forecasts. The Central Government Borrowing Requirement on its own account in February was a net repayment of 100 mln stg after a unrevised net repayment of 3.4 billion stg in January. In the first 11 months, the central government borrowing on its own account was 2.3 billion stg, after 2.1 billion in January. Local Authorities made a repayment estimated at 100 mln stg in February. The cumulative local authorities' repayment for the first 11 months was 700 mln. The Treasury said the fall about 2.5 billion stg in the cumulative PSBR at this point this year over last was largely due to lower public corporation and local authority borrowing. This was also the case last month, it said. The Public Corporations' Borrowing Requirement is estimated at minus 400 mln stg, to give a cumulative repayment of 1.4 billion stg. The local authority and public sector surplus on the 11 months cumulative basis was 2.1 billion, compared with a flat position at the same stage last year. The Treasury said that the proceeds from privatisation of <British Airways Plc> reduced requirements by 400 mln stg. The Treasury said the General Government Borrowing Requirement is estimated to be a net repayment of 100 mln stg in February, giving a cumulative requirement of 1.1 billion. Consolidated fund revenue was 8.8 billion stg in February, giving a cumulative total of 101.4 billion in the first 11 months, 4.5 pct up from the like stage last year. Inland Revenue Receipts for the first 11 months were 1.8 billion stg, or 3.5 pct higher than a year earlier. Receipts from Customs and Excise were 3.5 billion stg in the first 11 months, 10.5 pct higher than in the previous year. The Treasury said that budget forestalling, when traders bring in goods in advance of today's annual budget, brought in 300 mln stg more in customs and excise receipts than in February 1986. Consolidated fund expenditure was 8.4 billion stg in February, with a cumulative 102.5 billion for the first 11 months, four pct higher than in the previous year. Supply expenditure was provisionally estimated at 8.3 billion stg in February, giving a cumulative total of 91.2 billion or three pct above last year's equivalent total. REUTER 
U.K. INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES IN JANUARY

U.K. Industrial production rose a provisional 0.4 pct in January after a 0.6 pct decline in December 1986, figures from the Central Statistical Office show. The index for industrial production, base 1980, was set at a seasonally adjusted 109.8 in January after December's 109.4 and compared with 108.2 a year earlier. Output of manufacturing industries fell a provisional 2.3 pct in January after a 0.2 pct rise last December. The index for manufacturing, base 1980, fell to 103.9 from 106.3, and compared with 102.3 a year earlier. The CSO said industrial production in the three months to January was provisionally estimated to have fallen by 0.7 pct from the level of the previous three months, while manufacturing output rose by 0.5 pct in the same period. In the three months, industrial production was 1.5 pct higher than in the same period a year earlier, while manufacturing output was two pct higher. Within manufacturing, output of the metals industry rose by six pct and that of engineering and allied industries by one pct between the two latest three month periods. Output of chemicals and textiles fell by one pct and minerals by two pct. The Office said output of the investment goods industries rose 0.1 pct while consumer goods output increased 0.6 pct. Output of intermediate goods fell 1.6 pct between the two latest three-month periods. The figures showed the energy production index, base 1980, rose 7.2 pct in January to 126.4 from December's 117.9 and from 124.6 in January 1986. In the latest three months, the energy index, which comprises oil, natural gas and coal production, was down 3.5 pct on the previous quarter and 0.5 pct below the same period a year earlier. REUTER 
GMAC CANADA UNIT ISSUES CANADIAN DOLLAR BOND

General Motors Acceptance Corp Canada is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr eurobond due October 15, 1992 paying 8-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Union Bank of Switzerland Securities Ltd said. The bond, guaranteed by parent General Motors Acceptance Corp, is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date on the issue if April 15, 1987 and the first coupon will be short. Fees for the issue comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
TORONTO DOMINION ISSUES 20 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Toronto Dominion Bank is issuing a 20 billion yen eurobond due April 6, 1992 with a 4-5/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-5/8, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The bonds will be listed in London and will be issued in denominations of one mln yen. Fees consist of 5/8 pct for management and underwriting, including a 20 basis point praecipuum, and 1-1/4 pct for selling. Pay date is April 6. REUTER 
ORION ROYAL WITHDRAWS FROM FRN MARKET

Orion Royal Bank has decided to withdraw from making markets in floating rate notes (FRNs), an official of Orion said. He said the decision to withdraw was made about 11 days ago before the market was battered by a loss of confidence, which resulted in sizeable losses in these securities. The official, who declined to be identified, said Orion, the merchant banking arm of Royal Bank of Canada, had operated profitably in the market from 1984 to date. However, the decline in the market made it appear that they could no longer justify the overhead. The official said Orion would redeploy the three traders who had been in the FRN sector, mostly to their Euro-commercial paper operation, an area the bank believes has a greater growth potential. Officials at several other firms, who also declined to be identified, said they were reviewing their position to decide whether to continue making markets in FRNs. In trading earlier today, traders said prices of several dated FRNs had firmed slightly and that some buyers were beginning to re-enter the market. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES NO MORNING ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it did not operate in the money market in the morning session. Earlier, the central bank had estimated the deficit in the system today at some 450 mln stg. REUTER 
COCOA WORKING GROUP MEETING DELAYED

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock working group meeting set for 1130 GMT today was rescheduled for 1430, ICCO delegates said. The meeting was delayed so a draft compromise proposal on buffer stock rules could be completed, they said. ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn was preparing the plan in consultation with other delegates for presentation to the full working group, they added. REUTER 
U.K. BUDGET HOPES BOOSTED BY PSBR DATA - ANALYSTS

Data on the U.K.'s public sector borrowing requirement has boosted hopes of a large fiscal adjustment for the coming financial year, broking and banking analysts said. Some analysts say that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson may announce this afternoon a total of up to six billion stg in tax cuts and lower government borrowing targets. Total PSBR in the first 11 months of the fiscal year of 100 mln stg compares with a projected seven billion. Forecasts had generally been for a net repayment in February, but the 300 mln stg repayment was toward the better end of expectations. March is usually a high-spending month, boosting the 11 month figure at the end of the fiscal year. Nevertheless, Lawson is expected to downwardly revise the 1986/87 PSBR later today. Until now, only the more optimistic forecasts put Lawson's room for manoeuvre as great as six billion stg for 1987/88, with many favouring a four billion of five billion package. But Bill Martin, economist at brokers Phillips and Drew, said a six billion stg adjustment now looks within range, split between three billion off the PSBR and three billion off taxes. Malcolm Roberts, of Salomon Bros International, also said six billion was within a credible range of forecasts. Roberts added that he was now expecting Lawson to have at least five billion stg available following this morning's data, against his own previous estimates of around four billion. He said today's 11 month PSBR figure was genuinely low, rather than distorted by unusual factors, which fuels pressure on Lawson to reduce next year's borrowing target. However, he forecast a March 1987 PSBR of 3.5 billion stg. Peter Fellner, of brokers James Capel, cautioned that six billion still looks on the high side of expectations. "Something like 4.5 (billion) or so is still more realistic," he said. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN

The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the shortage in the money market today down to 400 mln stg from 450 mln stg. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 16 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 16 mln stg help in the afternoon session. The Bank did not operate in the market in the morning and earlier revised its estimate of the shortage in the system today down to 400 mln stg from 450 mln. The central bank purchased bills outright in band one at 10-3/8 pct comprising two mln stg of local authority bills and 14 mln stg of bank bills. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 120 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late assistance of around 120 mln stg. This brings the bank's total help today to some 136 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 400 mln stg shortage in the system. REUTER 
U.K. BUDGET SEES 1987 GDP GROWTH AT THREE PCT

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, presenting his budget for fiscal 1987/88 to Parliament, said U.K. Economic growth was forecast at three pct in calendar 1987. He said the Treasury expected a current account balance of payments deficit in 1987 of 2.5 billion stg, after a 1.1 billion shortfall in 1986. Inflation is expected to be 4.0 pct at the end of this year, Lawson said. "As I forecast in the Autumn Statement, inflation may continue to edge up for a time, perhaps exceeding 4.5 pct by the summer, before falling back to 4.0 pct by the end of the year," he added. Turning to the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR), Lawson said the likely outturn for fiscal 1986/87 was 4.0 billion stg, or 1.0 pct of GDP. The planned PSBR for 1987/88 was set at 4.0 billion stg. On monetary policy, Lawson confirmed the target range for the narrow M0 measure would be two to six pct in fiscal 1987/88. No explicit target was set for the broad sterling M3 aggregate, he said. "But broad money will continue to be taken into account in assessing monetary conditions, as of course will the exchange rate," the Chancellor told Parliament. Lawson said the low outturn of the PSBR in 1986/87 "is chiefly attributable to the remarkable buoyancy of non-oil tax revenues in general, and the corporation tax paid by an increasingly profitable business sector in particular." On oil prices, Lawson said he was sticking to his earlier assumption that North Sea crude prices will average 15 dlrs per barrel in calendar 1987. He said "it is clear that the increased flow of non-oil tax revenues, coupled with the prospective further growth of the economy in excess of the growth of public expenditure, puts the public finances in a very strong position." Lawson said the Treasury would strive to keep the PSBR at 1.0 pct of GDP in future. "We have reached what I judge to be the (Medium Term Financial Strategy's) appropriate destination - a PSBR of 1.0 pct of GDP. My aim will be to keep it there over the years ahead," Lawson said. "Inevitably, this greatly diminishes the scope I have this year for reducing the burden of taxation, which of course remains a major objective of government policy." "But I am sure it is right to err on the side of prudence and caution, and to build a still firmer base for the future." Lawson said the time had come to strike the Exchange Control Act from the Statute book. On corporation tax, he said the rate will remain unchanged at 35 pct in 1987/88. But companies' capital gains will be charged at the "appropriate corporation tax rate." He said that under the new proposed system, companies should be able to set Advanced Capital Tax (ACT) payments against tax on capital gains. "Taken together, these changes should yield 60 mln stg in 1988/89," Lawson said. Lawson said he will propose that all companies and building societies be treated the same way on payment of corporation tax, "with all liable to pay corporation tax nine months after the end of the accounting period on which the tax is due." "I also propose to legislate now to pave the way for a new method of collecting corporation tax, to be known as Pay and File." This would be part of a wider programme of streamlining tax collection, and would not come into force until the early 1990s. Lawson said he planned two reliefs on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT). As from today, companies may elect to have up to 10 pct of the costs of developing certain new fields set against their (PRT) liabilities in existing fields, until the income of those new fields exceeds the costs incurred. Second, there will be a new relief against PRT for spending on research into U.K. Oil extraction that is not related to any particular field. On business employment, Lawson said employers will receive tax relief for retraining workers. Lawson said that in future, traders registered for Value Added Tax (VAT) would be able to choose to account for the tax on the basis of cash paid and received. Small businesses may account for VAT annually instead of quarterly. The VAT compulsory registration period was being extended to 30 days, he added, and VAT registration thresholds are to be raised to 21,300 stg. New measures are planned to combat VAT avoidance, he added. The capital gains tax retirement relief limit would now be set at 125,000 stg. Lawson said he proposed to change the law so that companies in multinational groups with dual residence will no longer be able to secure tax relief twice on the same interest payment. The change will take effect on April 1, 1987, but "genuine trading companies" will not be affected. He also planned to end the present treatment of tax credit relief for foreign withholding tax paid on interest on bank loans, also from April 1. "In future, banks will be able to offset this tax credit only against tax on the profit on the relevant loan," he said. The standard rate of taxation is being reduced by two pence, to 27 pct from 29 pct. Lawson reiterated the government's aim of reducing basic taxation to 25 pence in the pound, but added "given my decision to use the greater part of the fiscal scope I now have to reduce the PSBR, that goal cannot be achieved in this budget." Small companies' corporation tax is also being reduced to 27 pct, he said. On the Lloyd's insurance market, Lawson said he planned to change the tax treatment of Lloyd's syndicates, bringing it into line with that of provisions for outstanding liabilities made by ordinary insurance companies and of comparable provisions made by financial traders. The Inland Revenue would be told to consult urgently with Lloyd's about the details of the legislation, he said. "The new rules will first apply to premiums payable for the Lloyd's account which closes on December 31 this year," Lawson said. MORE 
CITY OF BERGEN LAUNCHES 80 MLN CANADIAN DLR BOND

City of Bergen, Norway, is issuing an 80 mln Canadian dlr eurobond, due April 13, 1994, priced at 101-1/2 with an 8-5/8 pct coupon, lead manager Bank of Tokyo International Ltd said. The issue will be sold in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and listed in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Payment date is April 13, 1987. There will be two co-lead managers. REUTER 
C. ITOH FINANCE (EUROPE) ISSUES EUROBOND

C. Itoh Finance (Europe) Ltd is issuing a 30 mln dlr deferred coupon eurobond, due March 30, 1992 and priced at 100.1 pct, Wako International (Europe) Ltd said as lead manager. From the third year the bonds will pay interest at a rate of four pct over six month London interbank borrowed rate (Libor). They will be issued in denominations of 50,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees of 0.1 pct comprise two basis points for management and underwriting and eight points for selling. Co-leads are Mitsui Trust International and Pru-Bache Securities International. Pay date is March 30. The transaction is guaranteed by C. Itoh and Co (Hong Kong) Ltd, Wako International said. REUTER 
U.K. GROWTH RATE SEEN AT THREE PCT THIS YEAR

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, presenting his budget for fiscal 1987/88 to parliament, said U.K. Economic growth was forecast at three pct in calendar 1987. He said the Treasury expected a current account balance of payments deficit in 1987 of 2.5 billion stg, after a 1.1 billion shortfall in 1986. Inflation is expected to be 4.0 pct at the end of 1987, he said, adding it may exceed 4.5 pct by the summer before falling back to 4.0 pct by the end of the year. The planned PSBR for 1987/88 was 4.0 billion stg unchanged when compared with the likely outturn for fiscal 1986/87, Lawson said. Although no explicit target was set for the broad sterling M3 money supply, Lawson said broad money will continue to be taken into account in assessing monetary conditions as well as the exchange rate. The low outturn of the PSBR in 1986/87 was mainly due to the buoyancy of non-oil tax revenues in general, and the corporation tax paid by an increasingly profitable business sector in particular. On oil prices, Lawson said he was sticking to his earlier assumption that North Sea crude prices will average 15 dlrs per barrel in calendar 1987. The treasury would strive to keep the PSBR at 1.0 pct of GDP in future, he said. Reuter 
LAWSON OIL TAX BREAKS TO HELP NEW FIELDS - REVENUE

Two new U.K. Tax relief measures for oil producers, announced today, are aimed at encouraging developments in the North Sea to go ahead and boost opportunities for the offshore supplies industry, the Inland Revenue said in a post-budget statement. Earlier, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announced in his annual budget to Parliament that from today, companies will be allowed to offset up to 10 pct of qualifying development expenditure on certain future oil fields against Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT). To date, full relief was allowed for expenditure on an individual field itself, when its income stream began, but was not immediately available against other development expenditure, the statement said. The new relief will apply to fields outside the southern basin for which development consent is first given on or after today, and will improve the post-tax economics of new developments and encourage companies to proceed with project which might have been delayed, it said. Lawson also announced that he would henceforth allow certain expenditure on oil related research which does not at present qualify for PRT relief to be offset against PRT liability. This means oil-related expenditure in the U.K. Or on the U.K. Continental shelf, which has not become allowable in a particular field within three years of being incurred, to be allowed against PRT liability in any oil field, the Inland Revenue said. This brings the scope of PRT relief for research costs more in line with corporation tax relief measures, and is planned to encourage general research into ways of reducing field development costs, it said. In due course, the industry should benefit by over 100 mln stg a year, it calculated. The Inland Revenue statement also included other technical measures that Lawson did not comment on in his budget speech. These included measures to allow companies to balance their shares of PRT-exempt oil allowances through reallocation in two past periods of allowance utilisation. Tidier rules on incorrectly allowed PRT expenditure reliefs were announced, while there were also ammendments on rules on corporation tax and Advance Corporation Tax relating to the so-called "ring fence" of activities in the U.K. And its continental shelf. The Finance Bill will have provisions for the implementation of measures announced in November, it said. Gareth Lewis Davies, a North Sea expert with stockbrokers Wood Mackenzie and Co Inc in Edinburgh, thought the two reliefs on PRT would help the depressed offshore industry. He said the 10 pct cross field allowance relief would favour chances that development of smaller North Sea fields such Osprey, Don and Arbroath would be brought forward. Early development of the larger Miller and Bruce oil fields might also be encouraged, he said. Lewis Davies said the measure might also aid the offshore construction industry, which suffered a huge amount of lay-offs under the price slump of more than 50 pct last year. He pointed out that the relief only applies to the development of new fields outside the Southern Basin. This means more jobs could be created, as the fields in the central and northern sectors of the North Sea are deeper than in the south and thus have greater capital and labour requirements as the waters are deeper than in the south. He said the PRT relief for certain research expenditure would help fundamental research in the oil industry, although the benefits of this research would not be seen for several year. REUTER 
ANALYSTS SEE EARLY ONE POINT CUT IN U.K. BASE RATE

British bank base lending rates are likely to fall by as much as one full point to 9-1/2 pct this week following the sharp three billion stg cut in the U.K. Central government borrowing target to four billion stg set in today's 1987 budget, bank analysts said. The analysts described Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's budget as cautious, a quality which currency and money markets had already started to reward. Sterling surged on foreign exchange markets and money market interest rates moved sharply lower as news of the budget measures came through, the analysts said. Lloyds merchant bank chief economist Roger Bootle said he expected base rates to be cut by one full point tomorrow. "This is very much a safety-first budget in order to get interest rates down," he said. Bootle said the money markets had almost entirely discounted such a one point cut, with the key three month interbank rate down to 9-11/16 pct from 9-13/16 last night, and it would be rather conservative for banks to go for a half-point cut now. Midland Bank treasury economist David Simmonds said he, too, expected base rates would be a full point lower by Friday, but this would likely happen via two half-point cuts. "This budget is designed to please both the markets and the electorate. The implications for interest rates are very favourable, we could have a half-point cut tomrorow and another such cut before the end of the week," Simmonds said. Pointing to buoyant U.K. Retail data released yesterday, he said Lawson had done well to resist pressures for a sharp cut in income tax rates at the expense of a lower borrowing target. "There is no real need to boost private consumption," he said. National Westminster Bank chief economist David Kern said the lower borrowing target set in the budget had increased the likelihood of an early one-point base rate cut. Kern said the budget would have to be analysed carefully, in particular to see how exactly Lawson planned to achieve the sharper than expected borrowing target cut, before a one-point base rate cut could be implemented. But providing the budget small-print was convincing, "and I suspect it will be, it is entirely possible that we see one point off base rates by the end of this week," Kern said. Bootle of Lloyds said the expected base rate cut would pave the way for an early one-point cut in mortgage lending rates. This would help achieve Lawson's lower than expected consumer price inflation target of four pct at end-1987, he said. U.K. Base rates were cut last week to 10-1/2 pct from 11 pct after sustained pressure from the foreign exchange, money and government bonds (gilts) markets. But building societies said they would not cut lending rates until base rates had fallen by one full point. REUTER 
ICCO GROUP LOOKS AT COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULE PLAN

The International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, buffer stock working group began examining a draft proposal for buffer stock rules this afternoon, delegates said. The plan, presented by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, represented a compromise between producer, European Community, EC, and other consumer views on how the buffer stock should operate, they said. The proposal involved three key principles. First, the buffer stock manager would be open to offers for cocoa rather than using fixed posted prices as previously, delegates said. Under an offer system, the buffer stock manager would be free to choose cocoas of varying prices, they said. The second provision was that non-ICCO member cocoa could comprise a maximum 10 pct of the buffer stock, while the third laid out a pricing system under which the buffer stock manager would pay differentials for different grades of cocoa, to be set by a formula, the delegates said. After the plan was presented, working group delegates met briefly in smaller groups of producers, EC consumers and all consumers to look at the proposal. Producers gave no reaction to the scheme and will respond to it when the working group meets tomorrow at 1000 GMT, producer delegates said. Consumer members accepted the proposal as a good base to work from, one consumer delegate said. Delegates said the proposal was only a starting point for negotiations on buffer stock rules and subject to change. Reuter 
U.K. BUDGET SEEN BOOSTING GOVERNMENT BOND MARKET

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's budget contained virtually everything the government bond (gilts) market had hoped for and is likely to help prices race ahead in coming months, analysts and traders said. Indeed, in the first half hour after Lawson completed his speech, gilt prices soared about 1-1/2 points, an extremely sharp gain in such a short period of time. Overall, they rose about two points on the day. "This budget was incredibly bullish for the gilts market," Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd economist Stephen Bell said. Analysts said that in the light of the reaction to the budget in the gilts and U.K. Money markets, U.K. Commercial bank base rates are likely to be cut by as much as a full point tomorrow. Analysts said the market's euphoria was simply a reflection of supply and demand. The crucial piece of news in the budget was that the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement would be held to 4.0 billion stg. By comparison, a year ago, the PSBR was set at 7.0 billion stg. The lower PSBR means the Bank of England will have to offer far less new stock to the market to meet its funding needs and the scarcity factor is sure to drive prices up further, analysts said. "The PSBR at four billion is lower than anyone realistically expected," Bell said. Most market expectations called for the Chancellor to announce a PSBR of about 5.5 billion stg. S.G. Warburg Securities Co Ltd economist John Shepherd said that overall, the Bank will have to sell about two billion less in new securities next fiscal year -- a cut of about 15 pct in total new issue volume. Chase Manhattan Securities Ltd international economist Andy Wrobleski noted the Bank has already raised about 1.8 billion stg of next year's funding needs this year via a series of tap issues. The issues have been in a partly-paid form where the full price does not have to be paid until the start of the new fiscal year and therefore they are not counted in the current year's fund raising. But the Bank of England will also be constrained from issuing gilts in the conventional form by its promise to try out a U.S.-style auction system in which firms bid for new stock. The Bank will also have to offer at least one index-linked issue where the rate paid to investors is tied to the Retail Price Index, leaving about one to two billion stg, in total, to be raised in the form of traditional stock. Analysts noted that the budget contains provision for a two pence in the pound cut in the basic rate of income tax, in line with most market expectations, although some operators had expected a cut of up to four pence in the pound. The gilts market approved of the more modest tax cut, Shepherd said, because "If it was more than two pct, they would have become concerned about the economy heating up again." Also, a cut of two pence in the pound suggests that if the ruling Conservative party is re-elected, another two pence cut can be offered at budget time next year. Analysts said the gilts market may also be building steam on the political implications of the budget which suggests an early election. "All the goodies in this budget will be in place by the middle of May," Morgan Grenfell's Bell said. "This makes a June election very likely." Bell said some politically popular provisions omitted from the budget, such as lifting the ceiling on the amount of mortgage eligible for tax benefit and some provisions on pensions, could not have been implemented until autumn anyway. At that rate, they would have been of little use for a political party expecting to call an election in June. Also, analysts noted, the budget does not go overboard with measures that are seen as generous to the wealthy. "This will be a difficult budget for the (opposition) Labour party to attack," Shepherd said. REUTER 
ANALYSTS SAY U.K. BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's Budget speech was described as sound and well balanced by analysts, if slightly lacking in excitement. A cut in bank base lending rates is now widely expected tomorrow, with most forecasts predicting a half-point fall. A follow-up half-point cut is anticipated next week. "Worthy but boring would probably sum it up," Peter Fellner, U.K. Economist at stockbrokers James Capel and Co, said. "It was a very, very prudent fiscal budget." Richard Jeffrey of brokers Hoare Govett said it was a well-balanced budget within the confines of the government's philosophy of keeping expenditure levels flat. Most analysts said the Budget was very sound on the fiscal side, but offered nothing new on monetary policy. As was widely expected, Lawson split his "fiscal adjustment" between trimming the 1987/88 PSBR target to 4.0 billion stg from 7.1 billion and cutting basic rate income tax from 29 to 27 pct. The target for the narrow measure of money supply, M0, was kept unchangd at two to six pct, while the target for the broad Sterling M3 aggregate was dropped. Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way for a half-point fall in U.K. Base rates tomorrow, but the authorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately. Many analysts and currency dealers have forecast a full one-point cut tomorrow. "The Bank of England will be loathe to take any action which it will have to reverse later," Jeffrey said, though he added a further half-point cut was quite possible in the near future. The main worry from today's speech is the outlook for inflation, given the signs of relaxed monetary policy contained in it, Scrimgeour Vickers economist Richard Holt said. Holt noted the "rather loose" inflation forecast of 4.0 pct at end-1987, and said the lower interest rates likely to result from the tough fiscal stance could cause longer term concern. "A higher PSBR target could be preferable in the long term," he said, although lower mortgage interest rates on the back of falling base rates would have an offsetting impact on inflation. The Budget will inspire a lot of short-term confidence but it was "not a good budget for inflation," he said Jeffrey said he would have liked Lawson to say more about the dangers of excessive liquidity build-up but overall was not too concerned about a revival of inflation. Fellner noted that the exchange rate was to remain the "leading edge" of monetary policy, but said the authorities were likely to be extremely cautious on this front. He said they were unlikely to hesitate in holding interest rates steady or even raising them again if sterling showed any signs of excessive weakness. Most analysts agreed Lawson had bolstered the credibility of the Budget by adopting realistic forecasts. Raising the forecast for the current account deficit from 1.5 to 2.5 billion stg for 1987 would not unsettle the markets, which are already discounting that amount, Jeffrey said. that the 4.0 billion stg PSBR target was given credibility by the favourable outturn for 1986/87, which is now also forecast to be 4.0 billion stg. But analysts said the Budget speech did not give any clear-cut indication about the timing of the general election, which has to be held before June, 1988. Some believe it signals a poll this June, noting that the benefits, such as income tax cuts and the decision not to raise duties on alcohol and tobacco, become available immediately. But others said it kept several options open and it was not possible to deduce too much from it. James Capel's Fellner noted that by being fiscally prudent, Lawson had kept open the possibility of an autumn election in that there would be no "chickens coming home to roost." Richard Jeffrey, who favours the likelihood of a June election, said it was important the Chancellor had not gone for a Budget aimed overtly at buying an election victory. Nevertheless, he said, it was likely to result in a boost to the Conservative Party's pre-election popularity. REUTER 
BUDGET SEEN PAVING WAY FOR EARLY U.K. ELECTION

The budget presented by Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson was described by MPs and analysts as being politically astute, combining tax cuts and fiscal prudence which promised to boost the Conservative government's standing with both voters and financial markets. The 1987/88 budget contained a two-penny cut in the standard rate of tax, and a three billion stg reduction in the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR), to 4.0 billion stg. Parliamentarians said the budget would pave the way for a fall in domestic interest rates and an early election. Conservative MP Anthony Beaumont-Dark said the budget "is not glamourous - but it is sound and sensible." Lawson told journalists later that it was "a budget built on success, for success." But opposition MPs did not agree . David Steel, leader of the Liberal Party, said "this was a strangely deceptive budget. The Chancellor had six billion stg to give back - he has chosen to give half of that to reducing the PSBR, whereas we in the SDP/Liberal Aliance think it would have been wiser to use those revenues to reduce unemployment and alleviate poverty." Steel said "the cunning thing in this seductive budget is that all the good things will come in the pre-election period - the fall in interest rates, the fall in mortgage rates, the lower income tax, relatively cheaper whisky, beer, cigarettes and petrol." David Owen, the leader of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) which with the Liberals make up the centrist Alliance grouping, said "this is a good attempt at an electioneering budget but it has failed in its objective. It has given money to the "haves" as opposed to the "have-nots." Labour leader Neil Kinnock called it "a bribes budget." Kinnock said the budget "had little to do with the general good, and everything to do with the general election." Roy Hattersley, the Labour Party's Treasury spokesman, said "the Tories should have used available resources to invest in industry, in health and in education." He added that "we know that whoever is elected (to power in the next general election) will reverse these tax cuts." But Lawson rejected that. Rather, he said the Treasury expected to have at least 3.0 billion stg in fiscal 1988/89 for use in cutting taxes or raising public spending. Lawson rejected claims by opposition MPs that the government would be forced to call an election by a deteriorating economy. In his financial statement to Parliament, Lawson had said that "the setting for this year's budget is more favourable than it has been for many years. We are now entering our seventh year of steady growth and the fifth in which this has been combined with low inflation. The public finances are sound and strong, and unemployment is falling." He said that "these are the fruits of the government's determination, in bad times as well as good, to hold firmly to our policies of sound money and free markets." Lawson later said the Government felt no compulsion to plump for an early election. Asked by political journalists what effect the Budget would have on election timing, he replied "I think we will hold the election either late or early. I must confess I am rather relaxed about it all. "There is not any compulsion to go for an early election. But he added that "if the Prime Minister decides to go for an early election, it will bring to an end all this rather ridiculous pre-election atmosphere and fever - and there is something to be said for that." Industry also welcomed Lawson's budget. Confederation of British Industry (CBI) President David Nickson said "This budget will reinforce business success. Lower government borrowing means lower interst rates for business. This is what the CBI wanted." "We have always said we would judge the budget on how it affects the cost of borrowing. This should do the trick." REUTER 
U.K. OIL REVENUE FORECAST TO FALL IN 1987/88

The U.K. Government forecasts that oil revenues will fall to four billion stg in the fiscal year 1987/88, from 4.75 billion in 1986/87 and 11.5 billion in 1985/86. The forecast came in the Treasury's Financial Statement and Budget Report issued after the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's annual budget statement to parliament. The government is assuming the price of oil will average 15 dlrs a barrel, in line with its earlier forecasts, and its oil revenue calculation is based on an exchange rate remaining close to current levels, the Treasury document said. The Treasury said the 1987/88 oil revenue shortfall will reflect the oil price fall of 1986, as North Sea corporation tax is paid after a time lag. The statement calculated that a one dlr a barrel difference in oil prices this year will change revenue by about 350 mln stg for the current fiscal year, and 400 mln stg in a full year. Oil production is forecast to fall slightly in 1987, according to the statement. A change in one mln tonnes in production would alter revenue by about 45 mln stg in 1987/88 and 50 mln stg in a full year, it added. Total general government receipts for 1986/87 are now estimated to be 159.2 billion stg, 2.75 billion more than the 1986 Budget forecasts and above the Autumn Statement forecasts, despite a shortfall of 1.25 billlion in oil receipts. Additional non-North Sea corporation tax of 1.75 billion stg and VAT of 750 mln stg account for the bulk of the overshoot. Total general government receipts were forecast to rise to 168.8 billion stg in fiscal 1987/88, and among the main items, besides diminishing oil revenues, were projected income tax of 40 billion stg, up from 38.4 billion in the current year. Non-North Sea corporation tax is forecast to bring in 13.5 billion stg in 1987/88, after the revised 11.2 billion in 1986/87, and VAT revenue should amount to 23.3 billion, compared with upwardly revised estimated 21.5 billion this fiscal year. The general government expenditure for the coming fiscal year is expected to total 173.5 billion stg, up from a revised 164.9 billion in the current year. A repayment of 800 mln on public corporations' market and overseas borrowings is forecast to bring the total Public Sector Borrowing Requirement down to 3.9 billion stg in 1987/88, from this year's revised 4.1 billion, the Treasury said. REUTER 
FINANCIAL TIMES LAUNCHES NEW WORLD SHARE INDEX

The Financial Times newspaper said it has launched a new international share index, which represents more than 70 pct of the world's total stock market value. The FT-Actuaries World Indices, published for the first time today, feature a main world share index and indices plotting the movement of share prices in different regions and individual countries, the FT said. The first world share indices will be published on an up-to-date daily basis. The indices are based on the prices of around 2,400 equity securities from 23 countries. Calculated on the same basis as the FT-Actuaries Indices for UK securities, the indices will be produced daily and published in the Financial Times. The daily tables have a series of regional indices together with the overall world index. The FT said its main aim was to provide a set of measurements against which the performance of international fund managers could be judged. Markets, companies and securities have been included only when direct holdings of shares by foreign nationals are allowed, it said. The FT said to keep the whole series manageable it has kept the number of companies from the U.S. To 600. The indices are calculated in three seperate currencies - the US dollar, sterling and the appropriate local currency. The regional indices are calculated in a way that takes into account the relative weight of local capitalisations.The gross dividend yield is also published on the basis of what foreign shareholders are entitled to receive before withholding taxes. The FT said it has decided to calculate these numbers after the enourmous growth in the volume of cross-border equity investment in recent years. REUTER...^M 
UK TRADE WARY OF HIGHER EC GRAIN LEVY

The European Community may decide to increase the cereals co-responsibility levy and extend its scope to cover cereal substitutes if the Commission's 1987/88 farm price package is opposed by member states, Edgar Pye, vice-president of the British agricultural merchants' association UKASTA, said. At the moment the Commission is proposing the rate of levy remain unchanged at three pct - but Pye, addressing a feed manufacturers' dinner in Glasgow, said this could change if its controversial plans to cut cereal prices and introduce an oils and fats tax are blocked Pye said UKASTA would continue to fight the cereals levy "tooth and nail." However, a test case in the European Court of Justice contesting the legality of the current regulation applying the levy, which is being backed by the EC feed manufacturers' organisation FEFAC, was not now expected to be heard until the end of 1987, he said. Reuter 
FAVOURABLE TAX TREATMENT GONE ON CERTAIN UK LOANS

An Inland Revenue ruling accompanying today's U.K. Budget would eliminate a favourable tax treatment on certain foreign loans by British banks and may be a "nightmare" of practical application, banking sources said. This is because banks will only be able to offset the tax credit for foreign withholding tax paid on the interest they receive against the corporation tax on the profit of a specific loan. Currently, the tax credit is calculated against a banks profits as a whole. For banks, compliance with the ruling could indeed be a nightmare since they don't fund loans on a individual basis. Many of the loans that would be affected by the tax change are those to less developed countries, such as those in Latin America. Bankers could not estimate how many loans were involved expect to suggest it was a "sizable number." In a statement, the Inland Revenue said that on loans made on or after April 1, the new measures would apply to interest arising from that date. On existing loans at that date, the measures would apply to interest arising from April 1, 1988. Government sources noted that the existing treatment of withholding tax on interest has enabled some banks to reduce interest rates on overseas loans, thereby lowering the revenue to the U.K. Treasury. The new measures, they said, are designed to reduce the subsidy given to overseas lending through the tax system and bring the U.K. System more into line with those of overseas competitors. The Inland Revenue estimated that the income to the Treausry would be negligible in 1987/88 but could build up over time from about 20 mln stg in 1988/89 to 60 mln stg in 1990/91. But while compliance with the new measures could necessitate hours of clerical work, bankers said the end return to the Treasury may not prove as lucrative as anticipated. They noted that most documentation accompanying these loans contains a clause allowing for a loan to be restructured if the tax treatment changes. However, they were unsure to what extent the loans would and could be changed. Bankers said they would seek clarification from the Inland Revenue, particularly on how to calculate the cost of these loans. Revenue said it hopes to keep costs of compliance to a minimum. Reuter 
LAWSON EXPECTS INTEREST RATE FALL SOON

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said he expected British interest rates to fall soon in response to his fiscal 1987/88 budget, but he did not say by how much. "I would be very surprised if there is not a very early further fall in interest rates," Lawson said in a radio interview. Analysts said they foresaw U.K. Base rates falling as early as today by as much as one full percentage point after Lawson's announcement yesterday that the public sector borrowing requirement in fiscal 1987/88 and 1988/89 was to fall to 1.0 pct of GDP, or some four billion stg. British banks' base lending rates fell a half percentage point on March 9 to the current 10.5 pct. REUTER 
FRN TRADING SEEN RETURNING TO MORE NORMAL PATTERNS

Conditions on the floating rate note market appeared to be returning gradually to normal today with prices static to a little better generally, dealers said. The market was showing limited signs of recovery from the collapse in trading last night and the calmer tone was reinforced this morning as the first significant retail orders for some time emerged, one senior FRN trader noted. In fixed rate bonds, the tone was likewise quietly firmer with euroyen and eurosterling maintaining their recent bullish trend and activity in dollar straight and ECU-denominated bonds also picking up slowly. Although a handful of FRN market makers were expected to remain on the sidelines for the time being, dealers noted a tangible return of retail interest from the Far East, lured back by extremely attractive yields and bargain prices. "We are seeing from Singapore, and from Japan clients keen to use up their quotas for purchase of particular instruments before the end of the fiscal year," the senior trader added. Any investors not buying to their full limit would run the risk of having that limit reduced next year, he explained. However, he pointed out that mainly sovereign paper was in demand with U.S. Bank sector paper largely ignored. Prices of reasonable quality floaters had firmed by an average of 10 basis points in early trading but FRN dealers cautioned that the mood was still nervous. "If prices rise by too much too quickly, everyone is more than well-aware of the danger the selling could set in again," commented another FRN market source at a large Japanese house. The other sector commanding market attention today was eurosterling, which soared in line with U.K. Government bonds. Both markets were pushed higher by an ebullient pound and renewed buying by U.K. Institutions following Chancellor of the Exchequer's Nigel Lawson's well-received budget yesterday. "This was definitely a budget for lower sterling interest rates," said a sterling analyst at a U.K. Merchant bank. "It has been exceptionally well-received by the city, looks good to foreign investors and we are sure to see a rush to tap the eurosterling markets now," he added. News that next year's Public Sector Borrowing Requirement will be held at 4.0 billion stg from an earlier projected 7.0 billion was influential for fixed rate stg investment markets. The government's reduced need to tap the gilt-edged markets will create a perennial shortage of stock, maintaining upward pressure on prices, a sterling bond dealer commented. This could further boost demand for eurosterling bonds, as long as yield margins remain attractive in relation to gilts -- often the case with newer, if not with more seasoned issues. Bullish predictions on the U.K.'s general economic health were also expected to boost foreign interest in eurosterling. Market sources said attention would now switch to monitoring the fortunes of the ruling Conservative party in opinion polls ahead of a widely-anticipated general election. Although several new sterling deals are expected, in early trading the only sterling denominated one to emerge was a 30 mln convertible deal for British Land Co Plc. Other new deals this morning reflected the recent primary market trend with little activity in dollar-denominated issues although the currency sectors were busy. Hot on the heels of yesterday's two Canadian dollar issues was a 75 mln dlr six-year bond for Chrysler Credit Canada, guaranteed by Chrysler Finance paying 9-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct. A 15 billion euroyen issue was launched for Associates Corp of North America paying five pct at 102-3/8 pct due 1992. A similar euroyen offering was reported to be in the market for a Scandinavian borrower. Details were not immediately available. REUTER 
TURNER AND NEWALL SEEKS 71.7 MLN STG IN RIGHTS

Turner and Newall Plc said it planned to raise a net 71.7 mln stg with a one-for-six rights issue of 36.15 mln shares. The shares would be offered at 205p, compared with Turner's price which fell to 227p from last night's close at 241p. The group said the funds would be used to cut borrowings, which had risen to 234 mln stg at end-February, largely as a result of the takeover of <AE Plc>. The company also reported pretax profits rising to 44.7 mln stg from 39.6 mln previously. It noted that the purchase of AE involved the payment of some 125 mln stg cash as well as taking on AE's own borrowings of some 85 mln stg. The net debt/equity ratio at the year end had risen to 59 pct from 23 pct the year before, it added. The rights issue would cut borrowings and also allow further development through investment and acquisition. But it said that the purchase of AE -- which was won after a long and acrimonious battle last year -- greatly strengthened the group's position in the automotive components and engineering materials sectors. In the 15 months to end-1986 AE produced pretax profits of 27.4 mln stg compared with 25.6 mln in the 12 months previously. As the offer for AE was not declared unconditional until December 5, it made a negligible contribution to Turner's 1986 results. Turner said the prospects were good and it looked forward to taking advantage of the opportunities available. 1986 operating profits were higher in all areas apart from Zimbabwe mines, which were hit by the strength of the local currency against the dollar. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND INVITES BORROWING AT 10 PCT

The Bank of England said it had invited those discount houses wishing to use borrowing facilities to do so at 1430 GMT today at a rate of 10 pct for 14 days. This compares with the Bank's present band one dealing rate of 10-3/8 pct. The Bank of England's announcement was quickly followed by Barclays Bank and National Westminster Bank which announced a half-point cut in their base rates to 10 pct from 10-1/2 pct. Dealers said the lowering in base rates had been widely expected following yesterday's U.K. Budget in which Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announced a three billion stg cut in the Government's public sector borrowing target for 1987/88 to four billion stg. Many in the market had expected a full one point cut in base rates today but some were not surprised by the authorities' caution, dealers added. REUTER 
ASSOCIATES CORP ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN BOND

<Associates Corp of North America> is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due November 2, 1992 with a five pct coupon and priced at 102-3/8, <IBJ International Ltd> said as lead manager. The non-callable bonds will be issued in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined, with a 1/8 pct praecipuum. Pay date is April 6. Co-lead managers are <New Japan Securities>, <Wako Securities> and <Yasuda Trust>. REUTER 
BRITISH LAND ISSUES 30 MLN STG CONVERTIBLE BOND

British Land Co Plc is issuing a 30 mln stg convertible eurobond due March 26, 2002 with an indicated coupon of 7-1/4 pct to 7-3/4 pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The price will be fixed on or before March 24 at a premium of between 25 and 28 pct over the share price. There will be a call from 90 days after payment at 106, declining by one pct per annum to par but not before March 26, 1992 unless the share price is 130 pct of the conversion price. The bonds will be listed in London and will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 stg. Total fees of 2-1/2 pct comprise 1/2 pct each for management and underwriting and 1-1/2 pct for selling. Pay date is April 24 with a short first coupon. Co-lead is S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. REUTER 
DUNHILL HOLDINGS ARRANGES 50 MLN DLR/STG PROGRAM

Dunhill Holdings Plc, a subsidiary of Rothmans International PLC <ROT.L> has appointed Chemical Bank International Ltd as sole dealer for a 50 mln U.S. Dlr and sterling commercial paper program, Chemical said. The paper will be sold in denominations of 500,000 dlrs and have maturities of seven to 364 days. Chemical Bank (London branch) will act as issuing and paying agent. The financing is the first of its kind for the company, which makes luxury consumer products. REUTER 
CREDIT LYONNAIS ISSUES ZERO COUPON YEN BOND

Credit Lyonnais is issuing a 19 billion yen zero coupon eurobond due April 15, 1992 priced at 81.22 pct, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of 10 mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Credit Lyonnais is joint lead. Fees comprise 85 basis points selling concession and 70 basis points for management and underwriting. Payment date is April 15. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG URGES U.K. ENTRY INTO EMS

West German finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg suggested that the U.K. Should join the European Monetary System (EMS) and also urged some member countries to abandon their dual currency structures. Stoltenberg was speaking at a meeting of the Committee for a Currency Union in Europe, whose key members are former West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt and former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing, founders of the EMS. He said, "One failing of the EMS is important countries, like Great Britain, are not members. Other partners should give up their split currencies or abandon broader fluctuations." EMS member Belgium has both a "financial" and a "commercial" franc and the Italian lira is allowed to fluctuate by six pct against other member currencies, compared with a permitted fluctuation of only 2.25 pct for other currencies. According to a text of Stoltenberg's speech, the finance minister also urged greater convergence of economic and financial policies among European countries. He added that monetary stability should be a priority for European countries and, with reference to the U.S. Dollar, he said it was wrong to presume that a "permanent devaluation" was the answer to economic problems. Stoltenberg said there were clear reasons to bring down the dollar in 1985. "But an overshooting in the other direction now brings the danger of a new inflationary push for the U.S. And other countries whose currencies have declined," he added. He said such a development could also produce further burdens for heavily indebted developing countries. An agreement last month in Paris by industrial countries to stabilise the dollar around current levels had acknowledged these risks, he said. REUTER 
ASSOCIATES CORP ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN BOND

<Associates Corp of North America> is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due November 2, 1992 with a five pct coupon and priced at 102-3/8, <IBJ International Ltd> said as lead manager. The non-callable bonds will be issued in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined, with a 1/8 pct praecipuum. Pay date is April 6. Co-lead managers are <New Japan Securities>, <Wako Securities> and <Yasuda Trust>. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP

The Bank of England said it revised up its estimate of the deficit in the system today to 1.3 billion stg from 1.1 billion. The Bank has not provided any assistance to the market so far today but earlier invited the discount houses to use their borrowing facilities at 1430 GMT today and set the terms at 10 pct for 14 days. REUTER 
LAWSON HAPPY WITH STERLING, BACKS LATEST RATE CUT

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said he was content with the current level of sterling and welcomed today's announcement of a further half point cut in British bank base lending rates to 10 pct. However, he said he wanted to see a gradual approach to declines in domestic U.K. Interest rates, although optimism in financial markets might push for big moves quickly. He told a briefing of economic journalists that "I don't think we should rush anything." Lawson stressed the themes of "gradualism and steadiness" as economic policy. Lawson acknowledged that today's fall in interest rates were in response to his budget for fiscal 1987/88, unveiled yesterday to Parliament and which set a lower target for the key Public Sector Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) of 1.0 pct of GDP. Lawson said the two recent cuts in base rates, both made this month in the form of half percentage point declines, were "perfectly consistent" with monetary conditions now in Britain. He supported that by saying the narrow M0 money supply aggregate was "safely inside" its flucuation band of two to six pct set for both 1986/87 and 1987/88. In his budget, Lawson set no explicit target range for the broader sterling M3. Turning to the question of Britain eventually joining the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), Lawson repeated that "it is most unlikely we will enter before the next election." He said Britain was keeping the subject of full EMS membership under constant review. But he would not indicate what the chief considerations for this were for the government. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher late last year said a decision on whether or not to join depended on the strength of the U.K. Economy. But she later said such a move depended on other EMS countries scrapping residual capital controls. Although Lawson denounced what he said was "the current wave of election fever" in Britain, he added: "It is more likely that there will be an election this year" than not. He said he supported an early election only because it would clear the air. "Ideally, we (the government) should have a full term," but events could force a premature poll, Lawson said. The government, which has been in power since 1979, must call an election by June 1988. Speculation is rising for either a June or an early autumn election, political sources said. The decision to cut basic tax by only two pence in 1987/88 "was the right balance, economically and politically," he said. Lawson's decision to restrict the fall in the standard rate of tax to two-pence surprised many analysts, who had predicted that with Treasurys coffers full of tax revenue would have allowed the government to reach its goal of 25 pct in one move. But it was being praised today by political analysts as a shrewd move which, while advancing towards that aim, could not be seized upon by opposition parties as overtly trying to bribe the electorate. Lawson told journalists he had been surprised by how much the PSBR had undershot his original assumption of 7.1 billion stg for 1986/87 -- by some three billion stg. Returning to changing levels of interest rates, Lawson stressed that "they are not an objective (for the government) - they are an instrument of policy." Consequently the Treasury had no precise target for domestic borrowing levels, he said. But "there may be interest rate consequences" from changes in the level of government borrowing, he added. Lawson said he did not think that the U.K.'s relatively high level of real interest rates had hurt investment in Britain. He said conditions created by London's role as a leading financial centre had caused sterling interest rates to be higher in real terms than in other countries. Three factors had caused the higher level in relative interest rates in Britain, Lawson said. First, control of credit in Britain rested on interest rates alone, due to the freedom of its financial markets. He said the second reason was political uncertainty caused by proposed spending plans of the opposition Labour Party. Thirdly, he said "we do not have as long a track record of low inflation" as did the U.S., Japan and West Germany. Lawson foresaw London becoming the world's pre-eminent financial centre, because it was more international in character and more favourably placed in time zones than New York or Tokyo. REUTER 
ICCO MEMBERS ACCEPT BUFFER STOCK PRINCIPLES

International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) producers and consumers accepted the principles of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation, delegates said. The buffer stock working group then asked ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn, who wrote up the draft compromise, to flesh out details of the principles with the assistance of a representative group of delegates, they said. The working group broke up for the day, into a smaller group of five producers and five consumers to discuss administrative rules and into the group headed by Erbynn to hammer out buffer stock rules details, delegates said. Delegates said many differences of opinion still have to be ironed out. "Whenever we start getting into details the clouds gather," one delegate said. Erbynn is likely to present fleshed out details of the buffer stock rules proposal to the working group early tomorrow, delegates said. The principles of the draft proposal included establishing an offer system for buffer stock purchases rather than a posted price system, a limit to the amount of non-ICCO member cocoa that can be bought, and differentials to be paid for different varieties of cocoa comprising the buffer stock, delegates said. REUTER 
LAND SECURITIES ISSUES 100 MLN STG EUROBOND

Land Securities Plc is issuing a 100 mln stg eurobond due April 29, 2007 with a 9-1/2 pct coupon and priced at 95-3/4, lead manager J. Henry Schroder Wagg and Co Ltd said. The non-callable bonds will be listed in London and will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg. Fees are 1-1/2 pct for selling and one pct for management and underwriting combined with a 3/16 pct praecipuum. The pay date is April 29. REUTER 
EGYPT REJECTS VEG OIL OFFERS, TO RETENDER

Egypt rejected all offers at a vegetable oil import tender yesterday for unspecified amounts of sunflowerseed oil and/or cottonseed oil, traders said. It has asked for a renewal of offers on March 24. Exporters said they were not prepared to offer material on Egypt's new landed contract terms which include a clause, "free from radioactive contamination." Offers submitted were on old contract terms, all of which were rejected. REUTER 
IVORY COAST MINISTER DELAYED FOR COCOA TALKS

Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council, will not be able to open the council session here tomorrow, an Ivorian ICCO delegate told Reuters. He will arrive sometime later during the meetings here, the delegate said. The council session will be chaired instead by ICCO vice chairman Sir Denis Henry, the delegate from Grenada, ICCO officials said. Ivorian officials last week said Bra Kanon was due to return home for funeral ceremonies for a sister of Ivorian President Felix Houphouet-Boigny March 19-22. REUTER 
BANKERS TRUST ISSUING STG/DLR CURRENCY WARRANTS

Bankers Trust International Ltd said it is issuing 200,000 stg call/dlr put currency warrants at an initial offer price of 31.25 dlrs per warrant. The issue is guaranteed by Bankers Trust New York Corp. Each warrant entitles the holder to exchange 500 dlrs for stg at a rate of 1.60 stg/dlr and the minimum number of warrants exercisable or tradeable is 100. Exercise period for the warrants will run from April 22, 1987 until March 17, 1989. Payment is due April 15, 1987. REUTER 
DAVY CORP UNIT WINS INDIA SMELTER CONTRACT

Davy McKee Ltd, a subsidiary of U.K. Engineering and contruction company Davy Corp Plc, has been awarded a contract worth around 15 mln stg for the design of a zinc and lead smelter in India, a spokesman for the company said. The contract is being funded by Britain's Overseas Development Administration as part of a total grant of 73.65 mln stg to India's state-owned Hindustan Zinc Ltd. The grant is for the development of a major zinc and lead mine and associated smelting complex in Rajastan, North West India, the agency said. The agency said the project was expected to account for 44 pct of India's total production of zinc. A total 55 mln stg of the grant is allocated for the supply of goods and services from Britain. The grant comes as part of package announced on March 13 for Indian mineral development. The agency is also paying a further 31 mln stg to India's coal sector, for the expansion of its indigenous coal development programme, using British-designed longwall technology. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 15 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 15 mln stg assistance. This brings the Bank's total help so far today to 344 mln stg and compares with the estimated shortage of around 1.3 billion stg. The central bank purchased bank bills outright, at the lower dealing rates established this morning, comprising one mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 14 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
AUSTRIA ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Austria is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 22, 1992 with a 14-1/4 pct coupon and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The non-callable bonds will be listed in Luxembourg and will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. Pay date is April 22. Total fees of two pct comprise 1/4 pct for management, 3/8 pct for underwriting and 1-3/8 pct for selling. Co-leads are ANZ Merchant Bank, Banque Nationale de Paris, Hambros Bank Ltd and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. REUTER 
NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN BANK PLANS AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

National Australia Bank Ltd is issuing a 40 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 24, 1990 paying 15 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Orion Royal Bank Ltd said. The bond, in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs, will be listed in London. Paydate is April 24 and fees comprise one pct selling concession and 1/2 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND LENDS ONE BILLION STG AT 10 PCT

The Bank of England said it had lent one billion stg to the discount market for fourteen days at 10 pct. This brings the Banks total help today to some 1.34 billion stg and satisfies the estimated shortage in the system today which it had earlier estimated at 1.3 billion stg. The Bank's announcement this morning that it was willing to lend two-week money at 10 pct was interpreted by the market as a sanction for lower U.K. Base lending rates. The U.K. Clearing banks swiftly took this up, cutting their base rates by a half-point to 10 pct. At midday, the central bank lowered its money market dealing rates by the same amount. REUTER 
U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES

A total 60,500 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 44.819 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at today's European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said. Out of this, traders in France received 18,000 tonnes, in Denmark 15,000, in West Germany 12,250, in the Netherlands 12,000 and in Belgium 3,250 tonnes, it added. Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Aug to be between 44.10 and 44.50 Ecus per 100 kilos. Traders had also forecast today's total authorised sugar tonnage export awards to be between 60,000 and 70,000 tonnes versus 71,000 last week when the restitution was 43.248 Ecus. Cumulative export authorisations for the current 1986/87 season now stand at 1,915,270 tonnes (40 weeks). REUTER 
CHRISTIANIA BANK ISSUES EUROYEN BOND

Christiania Bank og Kreditkasse is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due March 31, 1992 paying 7-1/2 pct and priced at 101-3/4 pct, lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. The bond is available in denominations of 10 mln yen and will be listed in London. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. The redemption rate will be calculated according to a complex formula tied to the spot yen/dlr currency rate, Yamaichi said. Mitsui Trust International Ltd is co-lead. REUTER 
CEREALS MCAS TO BE UNCHANGED NEXT WEEK

Monetary compensatory amounts (mcas) for cereals will be unchanged for the week starting March 23, European Commission officials said. Cereals mcas are plus 2.4 points for West Germany and the Netherlands, minus two points for Denmark, minus eight points for France, minus nine points for Ireland, minus 5.7 points for Italy, minus 25.7 points for Britain, minus 44.1 points for Greece and minus 10.5 points for Spain. Reuter 
FINANCE FOR DANISH INDUSTRY HAS DANISH CROWN BOND

Finance for Danish Industry is issuing a 300 mln Danish crown eurobond due April 23, 1992, paying 11-3/8 pct and priced at 100-1/4 pct, lead manager Privatbanken Ltd said. The bond will be listed in Luxembourg. Pay date is April 24. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
U.K. BASE RATES WILL FALL AGAIN SOON, SAY ANALYSTS

Today's modest half-point cut in U.K. Bank base lending rates to 10 pct signals the Bank of England's determination to maintain a cautious monetary stance, but financial markets appear set to force its hand, analysts said. They said a further half-point cut in base rates to 9-1/2 pct was bound to occur within the next week and rates may shed a further half point soon if markets remain buoyant. Earlier, markets were bracing for a one-point cut in rates after yesterday's budget set a sharp three billion stg reduction in 1987 government borrowing targets to four billion stg. Sterling money market rates moved lower again, with the key three-month interbank rate down to 9-5/8 1/2 pct at the start of business from 9-11/16 9/16 yesterday, and sterling rallied to four-year highs against the dollar in very active trading. Government bond prices also surged on the budget, with gains in excess of one point pushing yields on long-term paper below nine pct for the first time in nearly a year. But today's smaller than expected rate cut appeared to have placated markets for now, analysts said. Money market rates recovered up to 1/4 point from earlier lows while both sterling and gilts came off highs as trading ground to a near halt. Analysts said the slowdown was likely to be temporary, and the reappraisal of sterling assets by international investors was set to resume as early as tomorrow, leading to higher gilt prices, exchange rate advances and lower money market rates. "Today's cut was slightly disappointing," said Bill Martin, chief U.K. Economist at stockbrokers Phillips and Drew. "The Bank of England is taking a very cautious line ... To temper the markets' first rush of blood to the head after the budget." Analysts said the bank's move today to lend two-week cash to U.K. Discount houses at a lower 10 pct suggested it hoped to maintain the new rates for about that period of time. The analysts agreed success would depend largely on how sterling performs in the near term. Sharp rises in the pound's value could be checked initially through Bank of England intervention but eventually the gains would force the bank to cut interest rates rates again. "The market seems to have accepted the modest cut for the time being," said Midland Bank treasury economist David Simmonds. "But I am sceptical that the bank will be able to hold up rates for long." Simmonds said he saw sterling rising another two U.S. Cents this week from around 1.60 dlrs, forcing a rate cut by Friday. Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase Manhattan Securities, said "There is another half point to come in the near term, this week or next week at the latest...We see a whole point off base rates in the next two or three weeks." Analysts stressed that apart from prestige, Britain had very little to gain from a sharp rise in sterling's exchange rate. Martin, of Phillips and Drew, said the dampening effect of a sterling rise on consumer price inflation would not materialise for at least nine months while its hampering impact on manufactured exports would show almost immediately. Analysts said the budget, featuring income tax cuts as well as cautious plans for public finances, had improved the chances of re-election for the Conservative government and probably advanced the election date. One must be held before June, 1988. Combined with overall good prospects for the U.K. Economy, this was likely to fuel a foreign rush on sterling-denominated assets, pushing the pound's value well above unofficial targets. With mark-denominated investments largely out of favour because of low yields and a dull economic outlook, Chase's Marshall said "Sterling is simply the best game in town, especially after the budget, and demand will remain strong." REUTER 
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT HAS CP PROGRAM

The Queensland Government Development Authority is launching a 300 mln U.S. Dlr euro-commercial paper program, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said as one of the dealers. The other dealer is Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd and issuing and paying agent is Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York's London office. The program is guaranteed by the Government of Queensland. Paper will be issued in denominations of 500,000 dlrs and will have maturities between seven and 365 days. REUTER 
WELLCOME FALLS ON BRISTOL-MYERS AIDS DRUG REPORT

Shares of Wellcome Plc <WELL.L> fell sharply following a report that Bristol-Myers Co <BMY> would seek U.S. Food and Drug Administration permission to test its aids vaccine in humans by the end of March, dealers said. Wellcome shares slumped to a quoted low of 453p on the report after yesterday's 496p close but later rose to 464p. Earlier this month a Wellcome spokesman said the company was applying for licences in the U.S. And several major countries for its "Retrovir" drug which can be used for the treatment of Aids. The U.K. Department of Health and Social Security has already issued a marketing licence for "Retrovir." Reuter 
WORLD BANK ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR ZERO COUPON BOND

The World Bank is issuing 150 mln Australian dlrs of zero coupon bonds due April 15, 1992 priced at 53, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The bonds will be listed in Luxembourg and sold in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. Payment date is April 15. The co-lead managers are Orion Royal Bank Ltd and Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd. Fees are 3/4 pct for selling and 1/2 pct for management and underwriting. There also is a 1/8 pct praecipuum. REUTER 
COPPER INDUSTRY ASKS LME FOR STRATEGY STATEMENT

Representatives of the International Wrought Copper Council (IWCC) and major copper producers have told the London Metal Exchange (LME) a clear statement of its forward strategy would lead to a better understanding between industry and the LME. In a press release the IWCC said that at the latest meeting between the copper industry and the LME to discuss the new clearing house system, industry expressed grave concern about latest proposals made by at least one LME member for a cash cleared market to replace the planned clearing system which will retain the prompt date settlement basis. Copper industry delegates told the LME a decision to change (the planned clearing system) would indicate a fundamental change in the function of the LME and in its service to the industry, the release said. By deterring industry use of the Exchange for hedging and physical needs it would remove many of the unique advantages currently offered by the LME and make it indistinguishable from non-trade orientated markets such as Comex. The LME had to decide whether dealer convenience should take a higher priority over customer satisfaction, industry delegates said. The IWCC release also said the LME had confirmed that no change would be made to the clearing system planned to start on May 29. But it had indicated that consideration would be given in due course to the cash clearing proposal, made by Amalgamated Metal Trading at a LME members meeting last week. A copper industry spokesman suggested that some assurance of permanence in the new clearing system would remove industry fears of uncertainty resulting from an endless process of review and change, the press release said. Reuter 
CZARNIKOW EXPECTS LOWER EUROPEAN SUGAR OUTPUT

European sugar output on the basis of three year average yields will be over half a mln tonnes white value down on last year although yields do vary widely from year to year, broker C Czarnikow said in its market review. European Community sowings are likely to be down compared with last year. There have been suggestions these sowings might respond to the recent upsurge in world prices, but Czarnikow said "it is not the sort of fact that easily becomes known." The broker bases its forecasts on Licht planting estimates which put W Germany, the Netherlands and USSR lower but Hungary, Romania, Poland, Turkey and Yugoslavia higher. Czarnikow's projections in mlns tonnes white value and three differing yields include '87/88 max aver min 1986/87 France 3.57 3.42 3.28 3.44 W Germany 3.08 2.88 2.64 3.19 EC 13.82 13.01 12.13 13.76 W Europe 17.71 16.45 14.98 16.71 Poland 2.02 1.80 1.13 1.74 USSR 8.65 7.60 5.71 8.05 E Europe 13.87 12.14 9.08 12.44 All Europe 31.58 28.58 24.06 29.15 REUTER 
MAI SEEKS 100 MLN DLR MULTIPLE FACILITY

<MAI Plc>, the financial services and advertising group, has asked S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd to arrange a 100 mln dlr multiple option facility which will restructure a part of the company's exisiting banking arrangements, banking sources said. The financing will be for five years and involves a committed backstop facility and an uncommitted tender panel for cash advances in dollars or other available currencies. The committed part of the transaction will carry a facility fee of 7.5 basis points and drawings will be at a margin of 15 basis points. There also will be a utilization fee of five basis points if the underwriting banks are called upon to provide more than 30 pct of the facility. Reuter 
CUBAN SUGAR OUTPUT SEEN AT 7.5 MLN TONNES

Cuban sugar output this season (1986/87) is put at around 7.5 mln tonnes raw value by broker C.Czarnikow in its monthly sugar market review. Allowing for around 700,000 tonnes for the current year's domestic usage it would leave around 6.8 mln tonnes for export of which, Czarnikow estimates, about 3.7 mln tonnes will be taken by the USSR, 1.530 mln by other socialist countries and the remainder for delivery to non-socialist bloc destinations. Czarnikow also estimated USSR 1986/87 production at 8.75 mln tonnes raw value which when added to the 3.7 mln imports from Cuba and set against its estimated domestic and export needs of 14.2 mln tonnes will leave a gap of 1.75 mln tonnes to be acquired from the world market. Soviet purchases to date may not be far short of that quantity, Czarnikow said. Reuter 
BRITISH LAND CONVERTIBLE BOND RAISED TO 33 MLN STG

British Land Co Plc <BLND.L> convertible eurobond issued yesterday has been raised to a total of 33 mln stg from the 30 mln originally indicated, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The coupon has been fixed at 7.50 pct and the conversion price at 248 pence to give a 27.84 pct premium over last night's share price close on the London stock exchange. REUTER 
BP SHARES SLIDE ON U.K. GOVERNMENT SALE NEWS

British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> shares fell sharply in early trading, in response to last night's news that the U.K. Government will sell its remaining 31.7 pct BP holding during the financial year starting next month, dealers said. By about 0840 GMT, BP shares were down to 802p, 26p below last night's close of 828p and 14p lower than the opening quote. The long-rumoured sale was announced by the government at the end of the second day of the budget debate in Parliament. At last night's closing price, unofficial estimates put the value of the government shares in BP at around 4.8 billion stg. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 450 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 450 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 650 mln stg while a rise in note circulation will take out around 30 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, bankers' balances above target and exchequer transactions will add some 200 mln stg and 35 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 
VOLVO ISSUES 70 BILLION EUROLIRE BOND

AB Volvo is issuing a 70 billion eurolire bond due May 31, 1990 paying 10-1/8 pct and priced at 100-1/2 pct, lead manager Banca Commerciale Italiana said. The bond is available in denominations of two mln lire and will be listed in London. Fees comprise 7/8 pct selling concession with 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined. Payment date is April 24 and there will be a long first coupon. REUTER 
DRG ISSUES 40 MLN STG CONVERTIBLE BOND

DRG Plc <DRGL.L> is issuing a 40 mln stg convertible eurobond due September 30, 2002 with an indicated coupon of six to 6-1/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Baring Brothers and Co Ltd said. Pricing will take place on March 26 with conversion set at a premium of 10 to 15 pct over the closing price on that day. Fees of 2-1/2 pct comprise 1-1/2 pct for selling and one pct for management and underwriting combined. The bonds will be issued in denominations of 1,000 stg and will be listed in London. The pay date is April 30 with a short first coupon. J. Henry Schroder Wagg and Co Ltd is co-lead. REUTER 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO RESUME TUESDAY

Three consecutive days of talks between management and unions aimed at ending the three month old strike at Cargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed processing plant at Seaforth, ended yesterday without resolving the situation, although some progress was made, a company spokesman said. Fresh talks have been scheduled for next Tuesday, he said. REUTER 
OECD EUROPE ZINC STOCKS RISE IN JANUARY

Producers zinc stocks in Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) European countries rose to 159,732 tonnes in January from 151,171 in December and 127,725 in January 1986, latest International Lead and Zinc Study Group (ILZSG) figures show. Other figures were - JAN'87 DEC'86 JAN'86 Refined production 155,980 164,243 166,968 Refined deliveries 131,910 122,364 136,727 Mine output (metal content) 77,120 70,560 81,356 REUTER 



UK UNIT WAGE/LABOUR COSTS ROSE 3.3 PCT IN THREE MONTHS ENDING JAN - OFFICIAL



UK AVERAGE EARNINGS ROSE 7.6 PCT IN JANUARY, UNDERLYING RISE 7.5 PCT - OFFICIAL



U.K. FEBRUARY ADJUSTED STERLING M3 RISES 2-1/4 PCT, M0 DOWN 3/4 TO ONE PCT - OFFICIAL



UK FEB ADJUSTED UNEMPLOYMENT FELL 44,100 TOTAL 3.07 MLN OR 11.1 PCT - OFFICIAL



U.K. CLEARING BANK LENDING RISES 1.6 BILLION STG

Clearing bank sterling lending to the U.K. Private sector in February is estimated to have risen by an underlying, seasonally-adjusted 1.6 billion stg after a 1.2 billion stg rise in January, the Banking Information Service said. The unadjusted rise was 1.31 billion stg, compared with an 813 mln stg increase in January. The Banking Information Service said the adjusted rise of 1.6 billion stg was well above the recent monthly average of about 1.0 billion stg. Of the increase, 297 mln stg was accounted for by personal lending, which the Banking Information Service said was taken up entirely by lending for home purchases. Lending for consumption fell around 17 mln stg while about 182 mln stg of credit card debt was repaid during the month. Lending to the manufacturing industry was up 370 mln stg, and to leasing companies by 308 mln stg. The Banking Information Service said February fell within the governmemnt tax season, so much of the lending was probably the result of industry's need to pay its tax bills. Deposits by the private sector rose an unadjusted 1.1 billion stg in February and by a seasonally-adjusted 1.75 billion stg. Deposits from the public sector rose 185 mln stg in February while deposits from overseas residents rose by 43 mln. REUTER 
U.K. UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS IN FEBRUARY

Unemployment in the U.K. Fell a provisional seasonally-adjusted 44,100 in February, to total 3.07 mln or 11.1 pct of the workforce, the Employment Department said. In January, seasonally adjusted unemployment fell by a revised 1,100 to 11.3 pct, it said. Initially the January position was reported as flat. The unadjusted jobless total, including school leavers, fell to 3.23 mln, or 11.7 pct, from 3.30 mln, 11.9 pct, in January. February was the seventh successive month that seasonally adjusted unemployment registered a fall. It was at a peak of 11.7 pct last summer. Lord Young, the Employment Minister, said there appeared little doubt the monthly fall, which has been running at about 20,000, will continue. A Department spokesman said the sharp fall in February reflected some compensation for the flat figure in January and continued the downward trend seen in the past six months. He said the February fall was spread throughout the country and among men and women. REUTER 
STERLING M3 UP 2-1/4 PCT IN FEBRUARY, M0 DOWN

The main measure of U.K. Broad money, sterling M3, grew a provisional, seasonally adjusted 2-1/4 pct in February after a rise of 1.1 pct in January, the Bank of England said. The narrow measure, M0, fell a provisional adjusted 3/4 to one pct after a 0.6 pct drop in January, the Bank said. Unadjusted annual growth in sterling M3 was 18-3/4 to 19 pct in the 12 months to February against 17.6 pct in January while M0 rose four to 4-1/4 pct after a 5.2 pct rise in January. Seasonally adjusted, sterling bank lending grew 2.9 billion stg after a January rise of 1.75 billion. Of the unadjusted counterparts to sterling M3, bank lending to the private sector expanded 2.6 billion stg after a 1.4 billion rise in January, the Bank said. The public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) contracted by 300 mln stg after a contraction of 3.7 billion stg in January. Funding - debt sales to the non-bank private sector and external flows to the public sector - rose by 300 mln stg after a 1.5 billion stg rise in January. Of this, central government debt sales to the public sector were expansionary by 400 mln stg after a 1.3 billion expansion in January, the Bank said. Other unadjusted counterparts to sterling M3 expanded by 300 mln stg in February after an expansion of 1.3 billion stg in January, the Bank said. Unadjusted figures showed a rise in sterling M3 by 1-3/4 to two pct in February after a drop of 0.8 pct in January. On the same basis, the figures showed a drop of about 1-1/2 pct in MO in February after a sharp 6-1/2 pct fall in January. The Bank said it would publish full, final figures on March 30. The Bank said non-bank private sector holdings of public sector debt fell by about 400 mln stg in February while external flows to the public sector were about 100 mln stg. Combined with a net PSBR repayment of about 300 mln stg, the public sector contribution to the growth in sterling M3 was therefore about flat, the Bank said. It said seasonally adjusted bank lending, at about 2.9 billion stg in February, compared with an average of about 2.6 billion stg a month over the preceding six months. REUTER 
U.K. EARNINGS RISE 7.6 PCT IN YEAR TO JANUARY

U.K. Average earnings rose a seasonally adjusted 7.6 pct in the year to end-January after a 7.4 pct rise in the year to December, the Department of Employment said. The underlying rise was 7.5 pct after 7.75 pct in December. The January index, base 1980, was set at a provisional seasonally adjusted 190.4, down from 193.4 in December. The underlying rise, adjusted for factors such as back-pay and timing variations, had been steady at 7.5 pct from October 1985 to October 1986. Unit wage costs in U.K. Manufacturing industry rose 3.3 pct in the three months to end January, on a year-on-year basis, after a 3.1 pct rise in the three months to end December, the Department of Employment said. In January, the unit wage rise in manufacturing industries was 3.6 pct, unchanged from the December rise. The Department said the decline in the underlying rate of rise in earnings reflected the reduced significance of bonus payments in January compared with December. The actual increase reflected teacher pay settlements and industrial action in the transport and communications sectors in January 1987. REUTER 
MEPC ISSUES PARTLY PAID EUROSTERLING BOND

U.K. Property company MEPC Plc is issuing a 75 mln stg eurobond due April 15, 2004 paying 9-7/8 pct and priced at 99-5/8 pct, lead manager County Natwest Capital Markets said. The bond is in partly paid form with 25 pct due on April 15 and the remainder on July 15. It will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in London. Fees comprise 1-1/2 pct selling concession and 1/2 pct each for management and underwriting. REUTER 
NOMURA INTERNATIONAL FINANCE ISSUES EUROBOND

Nomura International Finance Plc is issuing a 150 mln dlr eurobond due April 28, 1992 with a 7-1/4 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/8 pct, Nomura International Ltd said as lead manager. The transaction carries the guarantee of Nomura Securities. Bonds will be issued in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in London. Payment date is April 27. Fees comprise 5/8 pct for management and underwriting, including a 1/8 pct praecipuum, and 1-1/4 pct for selling. Co-lead is Pru-Bache Securities. The issue is targeted at Europe, with no Japanese co-managers. REUTER 
VOLVO ISSUES 70 BILLION EUROLIRE BOND

AB Volvo is issuing a 70 billion eurolire bond due May 31, 1990 paying 10-1/8 pct and priced at 100-1/2 pct, lead manager Banca Commerciale Italiana said. The bond is available in denominations of two mln lire and will be listed in London. Fees comprise 7/8 pct selling concession with 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined. Payment date is April 24 and there will be a long first coupon. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN

The Bank of England said it revised down its estimate of the deficit in the system today to 400 mln stg from 450 mln. REUTER 
AUSTRIA INCREASES BOND TO 75 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLRS

The Australian dollar eurobond launched yesterday for the Republic of Austria has been increased to 75 mln dlrs from the original 50 mln, Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said as lead manager. The five year transaction has a 14-1/4 pct coupon and was priced at 101-3/4 pct. REUTER 
U.K. BUILDING SOCIETY TAPS EUROSTERLING MARKET

Cheltenham and Gloucester Building Society is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due April 22, 1992, paying 9-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead manager Union Bank of Switzerland (Securities) Ltd said. The bond will be available in denominations of 1,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
BP SALE WAS IN UK 1987/88 BUDGET MATHS - TREASURY

The U.K. Treasury said its 1987/88 budget arithmetic which was unveiled on Tuesday "took full account of likely proceeds" from the sale of the government's remaining 31.7 pct stake in British Petroleum Co PLC (BP.L). A statement issued by the Treasury said "the BP announcement therefore makes no difference to our estimate of privatisation proceeds in 1987/88, or to subsequent years, which remains 5.0 billion stg a year." "It makes no difference to the PSBR (Public Sector Borrowing Requirement) which the Chancellor set in the budget," it said. "It has nothing to do with the future scope for tax cuts." The Treasury's move was prompted by press speculation, officials said, which followed last night's surprise announcement by the government. It currently holds about 578.5 mln shares in BP. The Treasury statement said that the sell-off "is simply a part of the government's continuing privatisation programme, the overall size of which was announced in the Autumn (economic) Statement" (last November). It said the BP proceeds "will be received in installments, of which the first will be in 1987/88." News of the privatisation weighed down both BP's share price in London and the equity market overall, market sources said. The prospect of so much more BP paper in circulation had cut BP shares at 1340 GMT to 824 pence from yesterday's London close of 828 pence. The company's shares had been down as low as 802 pence before rebounding, stock market sources said. Worries over the ability of the London stock market to digest the BP and other privatisation issues sent the Financial Times/Stock Exchange 100 Share Index down 9.1 points by 1340 GMT to 1997.5 from last night's close. At one point the index was as low as 1989.1, the sources said. REUTER 
COCOA DELEGATES OPTIMISTIC ON BUFFER STOCK RULES

Hopes mounted for an agreement on cocoa buffer stock rules at an International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council meeting which opened here today, delegates said. Both producer and consumer ICCO members said after the opening session that prospects for an agreement on the cocoa market support mechanism were improving. "The chances are very good as of now of getting buffer stock rules by the end of next week," Ghanaian delegate and producer spokesman Mama Mohammed told journalists. Consumer spokesman Peter Baron called the tone of the negotiations "optimistic and realistic." The ICCO council failed to agree on buffer stock rules when a new International Cocoa Agreement came into force in January, with deep differences of opinion precluding serious discussions on the matter at that time. The existing buffer stock of about 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen, with a funds balance of 250 mln dlrs. The ICCO made buffer stock rules negotiations a priority at this semi-annual council meeting in order to stop the slide in world cocoa prices. Consumers and producers agreed yesterday on the principles as a basis for negotiations. The council broke for lunch, and reconvenes at 1500 hrs. A working group which has been meeting since Monday will tackle the buffer stock rules issue again at 1600 hrs, when ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn presents a fleshed-out version of a draft proposal he prepared earlier this week, delegates said. Mohammed said delegates will have a much clearer indication of prospects for an accord after details of the rules are elaborated by Erbynn, and after producers and consumers meet separately later today to examine the scheme. The draft proposal included three principles: a limit to non- member cocoa comprising the buffer stock, an offer system for buying buffer stock cocoa, and price differentials to be paid for various cocoas making up the buffer stock, delegates said. During the morning council session, the Ivory Coast delegation gave "an open minded statement" that it is willing to work out a buffer stock rules solution which could come into effect as soon as possible, Baron said. Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon, chairman of the ICCO council, was now expected to arrive in London Monday to attend the talks, Baron said. Vice chairman Sir Denis Henry of Grenada chaired the meeting in his place. Soviet and East German delegates did not attend the council session because of a conflicting International Sugar Organization meeting today, but could arrive this afternoon, delegates said. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 191 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it gave the money market a further 191 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so far today to 372 mln stg and compares with its upwards revised estimate of the shortage in the system of around 400 mln stg. The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 15 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 176 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
HAMBURGISCHE LB ISSUES 50 MLN CANADIAN DLR NOTES

Hamburgische Landesbank Girozentrale is issuing a 50 mln Canadian dollar issue due May 6, 1990 carrying a coupon of 8-1/4 pct and priced at 101-3/8, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager. The notes are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs, with payment set for May 6. The securities will be listed in Luxembourg. There is a 7/8 pct selling concesssion and a 1/2 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
EC APPROVES 680 MLN STG U.K. AID TO ROVER GROUP

The European Community (EC) Commission said it approved a 680 mln stg British government aid package to state-owned Rover Group Plc <BLLL.L> to restructure and privatise the group's bus and truck subsidiaries. In a statement, the commission said Rover's <Leyland Trucks> subsidiary would be financially and physically restructured following a recently announced merger between Leyland Trucks and <DAF> of the Netherlands. The Commission said government aid for this program was justified because it would contribute to Europe-wide rationalisation of the truck sector. The amount of aid approved is slightly below the 750 mln stg the British government had planned to grant Rover by writing off accumulated losses and other costs. The Commission said there was overcapacity in the European truck industry estimated at between 25 and 40 pct. It said its approval of the aid also took into account the consequences for jobs and for the regions affected by the restructuring. Under EC rules, the Commission has to approve all government aid to industry. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE

The bank of England said it provided the money market with late assistance of around 40 mln stg. This brings the Bank's total help today to some 412 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a shortage in the sytem of around 400 mln stg. REUTER 
SOVIET TIMECHARTERING BOOSTS GRAIN FREIGHT RATES

Current interest by Soviet charterers in taking Panamax vessels on timecharter, mainly from the U.S. To carry grain, is seen as the chief factor behind the recent surge in values on the Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX), dealers said. Futures soared through the 1,000 points barrier today for the first time in the spot position since the market opened in May 1985. However, the market tends to be nervous, with values some 100 points above the Baltic Freight Index, which is calculated on spot physical rates. No specific figure has been put for Soviet bookings but they have been sufficient to drain Panamax tonnage (about 50,000 to 65,000 tonnes dw) from the U.S. Gulf which would normally operate on the trip to Japan, dealers said. "It appears that the Chernobyl disaster had a worse effect on its (the Soviet) grain harvest than reported," one said. Freight rates on the Gulf/Japan grain route have subsequently been the main beneficiary of current chartering conditions, with very few, if any, Panamax sized ships left for the remainder of this month in the Gulf. Rates have risen steadily for vessels loading next month. Dealers said there is even talk that owners are considering taking older vessels out of lay-up to meet current demand. Sentiment has also been aided by suggestions that Chinese operators may be in the market for similar timecharter business later in the year, they said. They anticipate this would appear around June and it has prompted keen demand in the July BIFFEX contract, despite it normally being a slack time in the shipping year. Market sentiment has fluctuated in recent weeks. Rates turned down as an earlier rise in bunker prices, which had supported the market at the start of the year, faltered but then recovered on the reported Soviet interest. Reuter 
CANON USA ISSUES 10 MLN DLR FRN PRIVATE PLACEMENT

Canon USA Inc, wholly owned by Canon Inc of Japan, is issuing a 10 mln dlr floating rate note (FRN) due December 4, 1989, paying 0.18 pct over six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and priced at 100-3/8, Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said as lead manager. Fees for the issue total 13/32 and payment date is March 25. The issue has already been placed privately on an international basis and will not be listed. REUTER 
U.K. REVISES RETAIL PRICE INDEX FROM FEBRUARY

The U.K. Government tomorrow will release the first of its Retail Price Index (RPI) figures calculated on a revised group of components and rebased on January 1987, as previously announced, the Employment Department said. The index, Britain's measure of inflation, is for February. Earlier data will not be revised as there are no equivalent figures including the new components, a spokesman said. Previously, the RPI base was January, 1974. Market forecasts centre on a 0.4-0.5 pct monthly rise in February and a year on year rate about 4.0 pct. The government forecasts annual inflation will be 4.0 pct at the end of 1987. REUTER 
GUINNESS BOARD SEEKS REMOVAL OF SAUNDERS, WARD

Guinness Plc <GUIN.L> said its board had agreed to put an extraordinary motion at the group's annual meeting to remove former chairman Ernest Saunders and non-executive Thomas Ward as directors. The meeting will be held on May 27. Saunders resigned as chairman and chief executive in January following the start of a Trade Department inquiry into the group's takeover bid for <Distillers Co Plc>. Finance director Olivier Roux later quit from his executive position and from the board but Saunders and Ward remained as directors. REUTER 
TRADERS DETAIL EC GRAIN EXPORT LICENCES

The EC Commission granted 25,000 tonnes of free market barley export licences at today's tender and 80,000 tonnes of French maize, grain traders said. The maximum export rebate for barley was set at 137.25 Ecus and for maize at 129.75 Ecus per tonne. All bids for wheat were rejected, they said. Reuter 
HAMBURGISCHE LB BOND RAISED TO 75 MLN CANADIAN DLRS

The Hamburgische Landesbank Girozentrale Canadian dollar bond issued earlier today due May 6, 1990 at 8-1/4 pct and 101-3/8 has been increased to 75 mln dlrs, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager. REUTER 
HAMBURGISCHE LB BOND RAISED TO 75 MLN CANADIAN DLRS

The Hamburgische Landesbank Girozentrale Canadian dollar bond issued earlier today due May 6, 1990 at 8-1/4 pct and 101-3/8 has been increased to 75 mln dlrs, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager. Reuter 
EC MAY OFFER INTERVENTION SUGAR TO LOCAL MARKET

Sugar which EC producers plan to sell into intervention may be offered by the European Commission for sale within the Community, broker C. Czarnikow says in its latest sugar review. The Commission will propose to offer the sugar at a very nominal premium of 0.01 European Currency Unit (Ecu) to the intervention price, with detrimental consequences for producers' returns, Czarnikow says. The move is seen as an attempt to persuade the producers to take back the surrendered sugar. The Commission may also take other steps to dissuade producers from their chosen course, such as removing the time limit on storage contracts, which presently means that intervention stocks have to be removed by the end of September, Czarnikow says. There is also the possibility of production quotas being reduced. If the Commission decided to offer the sugar to traders for export, the restitutions would have to be higher than those at recent export tenders, Czarnikow notes. To match the difference between the EC price and the world market price, the extra costs might be as much as 20 Ecus per tonne, it says. The producers might have to repay these costs through production levies and the proposed special elimination levy, Czarnikow says, but it would be several months before any costs could be recovered under EC rules. The primary cause of the plan to sell 775,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention in France is dissatisfaction with the EC export program as the restitution has increasingly failed to bridge the gap between the EC price and the world market price, Czarnikow notes. The French move is thus seen as a form of protest designed to force the Commission's hand. In West Germany, 79,250 tonnes have been tendered for intervention, but Czarnikow says the motive here is to ensure that the 1986/87 price is paid for sugar that was produced in 1986. In addition to a two pct cut in the intervention price, West German producers face a further price reduction in July with a probable revaluation of the "green" mark. Even if the immediate crisis is resolved, the problem is not expected to disappear permanently. It has appeared to traders for some years that the EC's export policy is insufficiently responsive to changing patterns of demand, it says. The weekly tenders should respond to fluctuating demand by increasing or reducing the tonnage awarded, Czarnikow says, suggesting that the Commission might also take steps to cut down the amount of "unnecessary bureaucracy" surrounding the export tender system. Reuter 
HOUSEHOLD FINANCE SETS 75 MLN CANADIAN DLR NOTE

Household Financial Corp Ltd is issuing a 75 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 23, 1994, carrying a coupon of nine pct and priced at 101-3/4, said Orion Royal Bank as lead manager. The securities are guaranteed by the parent company, Household Finance Corp and are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs each. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. The company's outstanding securities are rated AA-minus by Standard and Poor's corp. REUTER 
ICCO TO EXAMINE BUFFER STOCK DETAILS TOMORROW

The International Cocoa Council, ICCO, adjourned for the day after a detailed proposal on buffer stock rules was distributed and executive committee officials were elected, delegates said. Producers, EC consumers and all consumers are scheduled to hold separate meetings tomorrow to review the proposal, written by ICCO executive director Kobena Erbynn, they said. The buffer stock working group is to meet again on rules Monday morning, and the full council is to reconvene Tuesday, delegates said. Heinz Hofer of Switzerland was elected executive committee chairman and Mette Mogstad of Norway vice chairman, they added. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY DATA MAY EASE RATE CUT, ANALYSTS SAY

Slower than expected growth in Britain's narrow M0 money supply measure in February will help spur a further cut in U.K. Interest rates if a surge in sterling's value requires such a move, economic analysts said. M0, the only targeted money supply measure left after Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson scrapped the official target for the broad sterling M3 measure in his 1987 budget speech on Tuesday, fell an adjusted 3/4 to one pct in February. On an annual basis, this put M0 growth at four to 4-1/2 pct, in the middle of the 1987 target of two to six pct. "The M0 data are much better than we expected," said Robert Thomas, economist at Greenwell Montagu Securities. He and other analysts said while the better than expected M0 figures alone would not be sufficient to trigger a new interest rate cut, they removed an obstacle to such a move. Thomas noted the rise in M0 had been kept in check despite buoyant retail sales in February, advancing an adjusted 2.2 pct after a fall of the same size in January. Analysts said the M0 measure, reflecting variations in consumer demand rather than real inflation prospects, was not an adequate indicator to determine interest rates. "The authorities still seem to want to pretend that M0 is important ... In practice, it is likely to be the exchange rate and the election which call the tune," Lloyds Merchant bank chief economist Roger Bootle wrote in a budget comment. Richard Jeffrey, economist at stockbrokers Hoare Govett, said in a comment: "It is unlikely that (Lawson) will respond to signals from M0 alone ... Reinforcement from exchange rate trends is necessary before action is taken." "With the Chancellor making clear that policy manoeuvres are made in response to signals from this narrow money variable, the City has been forced to take it seriously," he added. Noting this point, Thomas said market fears at the end of last year of an M0 overshoot had now disappeared. This removed a potential obstacle to a further cut in U.K. Base lending rates if foreign demand for sterling pushed up the pound above unofficial targets, analysts said. Such targets are believed to have been secretly agreed between finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada at their Paris meeting last month, they added. U.K. Base rates have been cut twice by half a point since the Paris agreement, once on March 11, and again yesterday when foreign demand for sterling surged in reaction to a sharp cut in 1987 government borrowing targets contained in the budget. They stand at 10 pct now, and foreign exchange dealers and analysts expect them to shed another half-point in the coming week. Analysts shrugged off as largely irrelevant a higher than expected increase in February sterling M3, which pushed the annual growth rate to almost 19 pct, well above the previous target of 11 to 15 pct. Thomas said the February figures seemed to indicate the improvement in sterling M3 growth witnessed over the past few months had been reversed, but firm conclusions could only be drawn after revised data are released on March 31. Some analysts said foreign investors had long ceased to watch the sterling M3 target, and Lawson's move to scrap it altogether earlier this week removed whatever was left of its credibility as a key factor in monetary policy. REUTER 
UK CROSS FIELD PRT RELIEF FAVOURS SMALLER FIELDS

The "cross field allowance" relief on Petroleum Revenue Tax (PRT) announced by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson this week will favour smaller non-PRT paying fields, according to stockbrokers Wood Mackenzie and Co. The cross field allowance offsets up to 10 pct of qualifying spending on a new oil field against PRT liability of other fields. It is restricted to new offshore developments outside the southern basin and yet to gain Annex B approval. A report by the stockbrokers said that on a new field not paying PRT due to its small size, the relief would directly benefit in PRT saving on an existing field. "The cross field allowance will mainly benefit participators in those fields which have no PRT liability," the report said, adding that the timing of development of such fields may be advanced. The government would in effect be subsidising these developments at 7.5 pct of capital expenditure before corporation tax, the report said. On fields likely to pay PRT in the future, the benefit is of timing. Although liabilities on other existing fields will be reduced immediately, liabilities on larger new fields will rise in the future due to the loss of offsets, it said. In a study on probable fields, the report said that when the rates of return are examined, the rise for a PRT-paying field such as Miller, the largest undeveloped oil field in the U.K. North Sea, is from 18.7 to 19 pct, while the rise for a small non-PRT paying field such as Kittiwake is 15.9 to 17.9 pct. The report added that in fields which pay PRT, there will be a cost in being able to have this early relief. Not only will these costs be unavailable for offset against the field's future profits, but uplift of some 35 pct on these costs will be lost. Thus, a saving of PRT of 100 when field development starts will have to be matched by a rise in PRT of 135 at a later time. Reuter 
LAWSON REPEATS HE IS CONTENT WITH STERLING LEVEL

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel today repeated that he was satisfied with the current level of sterling, both against the dollar and the West German mark. Lawson said in a television interview that he did not regard the pound's present exchange rate was uncomfortably high. "I think it is round about right," he said. "I think there was a time that they (British manufacturers) thought the (exchange) rate was uncomfortably high. But I think they are very satisfied with the present level." "But I have made it absolutely clear that I don't want to see the pound go through the roof," he added. Reuter 
NEW CHIEF ELECTED FOR WORLD SUGAR ORGANISATION

Dominican Alfredo Ricart will take over as executive director of the International Sugar Organization (ISO) in mid-April, ISO officer in charge Constantin Politoff said. Previous ISO chief William Miller retired at end-February last year. Ricart told Reuters his first aim is put the "house in order" by having a new administrative sugar pact with improved allocations of voting rights and financial contributions. Once this is done, time can be dedicated to working towards a new International Sugar Agreement (ISA) with economic clauses, he said. Ricart, currently the Dominican Republic's ambassador to Austria, the Netherlands and the UN in Geneva, said he will visit the four major exporters - Australia, Brazil, Cuba and the European Community - to talk to governments and producers and find out about problems that are preventing these countries finding common ground for a new sugar pact. Reuter 
INTERNATIONAL SUGAR PACT TO BE RENEGOTIATED

The International Sugar Agreement (ISA) will be renegotiated, International Sugar Organization (ISO) officer in charge Constantin Politoff told Reuters after a special session of the pact's council. A decision on how to renegotiate will be taken at the ISO six monthly session in May. The alternatives are between an autumn London conference for another pact without economic clauses, but a different voting and budgetary structure, or a Geneva-based conference next year for a new pact with economic clauses, he said. But delegates said the latter would only be considered if the world's four major exporters -- Australia, Brazil, Cuba and the European Community -- can resolve differences over how prices can best be supported and how to share the world Today's special session was called because the U.S. earlier indicated it would only be able to pay 56 pct of its share of the ISO budget. At today's council session Politoff said the U.S. would try and find a way to pay the balance of about 50,000 stg later this year. Currently, about three quarters of this year's ISO 800,000 stg budget has not been paid but delegates said the U.S. caused controversy as it said it might not pay its full contribution in the last year of the current pact. The Soviet Union has called for changes to the way the ISO budget is shared out. Currently it is halved between importers and exporters and the Soviet Union has a 30 pct share of the importer half. The Soviets want a new sugar pact to have only a single category of members who would all share the costs pro rata to their share of world sugar trade. The ISO executive committee next meets on April 23 with the next full council session in the week of May 19. There are 12 importing and 44 exporting members of the ISO. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage of around 950 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain around 572 mln stg while a rise in note circulation wil take out some 280 mlns stg. In addition, exchequer transactions and bankers' balances below target will remove some 85 mln stg and 15 mln stg for the system respectively. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 728 MLN STG EARLY HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 728 mln stg assistance in response to an early round of bill offers from the discount houses. Earlier, the Bank had estimated the shortage in the system today at 950 mln stg. The central bank purchased 625 mln stg of bills for resale to the market on April 7 at rates of interest between 9-15/16 pct and 10 pct. It also bought 103 mln stg bank bills outright comprising 65 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 38 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
MOODY'S ASSIGNS EUROBOND RATINGS

Moody's Investors Service said it assigned the following ratings to new eurobonds. AAA ratings were assigned to: Eastman Kodak Co's 135 mln U.S. Dlrs of 7-1/8 pct euronotes due 1987. Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York's 100 mln Canadian dlrs of 8-1/2 pct receipts for Government of Canada bonds due 1994. Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG's 100 mln Canadian dlrs of nine pct guaranteed eurobonds due 1997. Swedish Export Credit's 220 mln Australian dlrs of 9-1/2 pct dual currency eurobonds due 1992. Moody's said it also assigned AAA ratings to: European Coal and Steel Community's 100 mln stg 9-3/8 pct eurobonds due 1992. Nordic Investment Bank's 300 mln Danish crown 11-1/4 pct eurobonds due 1994. The World Bank's one billion Luxembourg francs of seven pct eurobonds due 1997. Credit Foncier's 150 mln European Currency Units (ECUs) of 7-5/8 pct eurobonds due 1994. Moody's said it also assigned ratings to euroyen bonds, with AAA ratings assigned to the following: Societe Generale's 19 billion yen zero coupon notes due 1992. Export Development Corp's 15 billion yen of 4-1/2 pct euroyen bonds due 1992. Exportfinans' 15 billion yen of five pct eurobonds due 1992. Toronto Dominion Bank's 20 billion yen of 4-5/8 pct euroyen bonds due 1992. A AA1 rating was assigned to DNC International Finance AS' 10 billion yen of five pct guaranteed eurobonds due 1994. Moody's said it assigned a AA2 rating to Toyota Motor Credit Co's 23 billion yen of 4-1/2 pct euroyen bonds due 1992. Nissan Motor Co Ltd's 35 billion yen of 5-1/8 pct euroyen bonds due 1992 gained an A2 rating. Ford Motor Credit Co's 200 mln marks of 5-3/4 pct eurobonds due 1992 were assigned an A1 rating. REUTER 
NON-COMMUNIST FEBRUARY ALUMINIUM OUTPUT UP, IPAI

Non-Communist daily average unwrought aluminium production in February was 33,900 tonnes, up 400 tonnes from a downwardly revised 33,500 tonnes in January and compared with 32,900 tonnes in February 1986, provisional figures from the International Primary Aluminium Institute (IPAI) show. Total production in February (28 days) was 949,000 tonnes compared with a downwardly revised 1.038 mln in January (31 days) and 920,000 in February 1986. The regional breakdown of unwrought aluminium production was as follows (in thousands of tonnes) the IPAI said. Feb'87 Jan'87 Feb'86 Africa 45 50 41 North America 354 389 353 Latin America 115 121 98 East Asia 7 9 16 South Asia 72 79 72 Europe 268 293 256 Oceania 88 97 84 REUTER 
EC APPROVES 25,000 TONNES OF BARLEY EXPORTS

The European Community authorised the export of 25,000 tonnes of barley yesterday, bringing the cumulative total at weekly tenders since the series started last June to 3.33 mln tonnes, close to the 3.37 mln under licence in the same year ago period, traders said. All bids for wheat were rejected. However, the total to date of 5.06 mln tonnes is still substantially more than the 3.03 mln under licence a year ago. The 80,000 tonnes of French maize granted for export moved the total to 135,000 tonnes since the tender opened in February this year. There were no facilities for maize in the previous weekly grain export series. REUTER 
U.K. FEB RETAIL PRICES UP 0.4 PCT, BASE REVISED, YEAR-ON-YEAR RISE 3.9 PCT - OFFICIAL



U.K. AVERAGE GDP RISES 2.6 PCT IN 1986

Britain's gross domestic product (GDP) on the average basis of output, expenditure and income rose by 2.6 pct in 1986 after a 3.4 pct increase a year earlier, Central Statistical Office (CSO) preliminary figures show. In the fourth quarter, GDP rose 0.7 pct over the previous quarter and was up 3.3 pct on the same 1985 quarter. The average estimate index, seasonally-adjusted and based 1980, was set at 114.3 in the fourth quarter of 1986 against 113.5 in the previous quarter and 110.7 in the final quarter of 1985. The CSO said the average GDP estimate index for 1986 as a whole was 113.1, up 2.6 pct from 110.2 for 1985. On the output measure, GDP rose an upward revised seasonally adjusted 0.3 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 to 114.9 on the output index from 114.5 in the previous quarter, giving a 3.2 pct rise over the fourth 1985 quarter, the CSO figures show. On income-based GDP, the index in the fourth quarter rose by 0.7 pct from the third quarter and was up 3.8 pct on the year-ago quarter. The indices stood at 115.3, 114.4 and 111.0 respectively. Expenditure-based GDP rose 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 from the third quarter and was up 2.9 pct from the same 1985 quarter. The CSO set the expenditure index at 112.9 from 111.6 in the third quarter of 1986 and 109.8 in the final 1985 quarter. The year-on-year rise for expenditure GDP was 2.3 pct with the expenditure index for the whole of 1986 set at 111.9 against 109.4 a year earlier. For income GDP, the year-on-year rise was 2.6 pct against against three pct a year earlier. The ouptut GDP measure rose 2.8 pct year-on-year, down from 3.8 pct in 1985. The government usually considers the output measure the most reliable way of measuring short-term GDP changes. It is based on output data for production industry and partial information for the rest of the economy. The government had forecast that average measure GDP would rise 2.5 pct in calendar 1986 after 3.3 pct in 1985. The budget unveiled on Tuesday foresaw GDP growth in 1987 of three pct. The GDP deflator, based on expenditure at market prices, rose 1.2 pct in the fourth quarter from the third, to give a 2.4 pct rise over fourth quarter 1985. Year-on-year, the deflator rose 3.7 pct. REUTER 
U.K. RETAIL PRICES RISE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The Retail Price Index (RPI), Britain's measure of inflation, rose 0.4 pct in February on a revised basis, to give a year-on-year rise of 3.9 pct, the Employment Department said. In January, the index rose 0.4 pct for a 3.9 pct year-on-year rise on both the previous base and the new index. The February RPI was set at 100.4, base January 1987. In February 1986, the RPI rose 0.4 pct, giving a 5.1 pct year-on-year increase on the old basis. The inflation data compares with market forecasts for a rise of 0.4 - 0.5 pct in February and a yearly rise of about four pct, economists said. The Employment Department said the rise in the index between January and February was mainly the result of higher prices for petrol, fresh vegetables, cars and car maintenance. REUTER 
U.K. BUILDING SOCIETY RECEIPTSRISE IN FEBRUARY

U.K building society net receipts in February were 472 mln stg, slightly up on January's 456 mln but well below the 793 mln stg of February 1986, the Building Societies' Association (BSA) said. BSA Secretary-General Mark Boleat noted that net receipts were below 500 mln stg for the third month out of the last four. "This was obviously a disappointing performance, especially in view of the rapid growth of mortgage commitments, to over 2.5 billion stg," he said. The BSA said receipts were depressed by the British Airways flotation, despite the later return of oversubscribed funds. Total building society receipts in February were 6.4 billion stg against withdrawals of 5.9 billion. Mortgage lending to home buyers during the month fell slightly to 2.16 billion stg from 2.18 billion stg in January, the BSA said. Mortgage lending has fallen steadily since last July's peak of 3.9 billion stg. Net new mortgage commitments however rose to 2.5 billion stg from January's 1.9 billion, bringing the total commitments outstanding to 6.9 billion after January's 6.6 billion stg. Wholesale funding rose to 292 mln stg after January's 29 mln, but was still below each of the last six 1986 months. REUTER 
U.K. UNIT TRUSTS REPORT STRONG RISE IN FEBRUARY

Funds managed by U.K. Unit trusts rose by 2.3 billion stg in February to stand at a record 37.2 billion, the Unit Trust Association said. By comparison, funds under management in January totalled 34.9 billion stg and in February 1986, 22.9 billion. The association statement said gross sales for February rose 1.01 billion stg, the second consecutive month sales increased over a billion stg. Gross sales in January totalled 1.14 billion and 560.7 mln in February 1986. The number of unit holder accounts rose by 93,000 to 3,594,000, a rise of 36 pct during the last 12 months. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 31 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it gave the money market another 31 mln stg in assistance in the morning session. This brings the Bank's total help today to 759 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a 1.05 billion stg money market shortage which it earlier revised up from 950 mln stg. The central bank bought 31 mln stg of bank bills outright in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
SOUTH AUSTRALIA AGENCY ISSUES ZERO-COUPON BOND

The South Australia Government Financing Authority is issuing a 25 mln Australian dlr zero coupon bond priced at 51.75 pct, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The bonds, due April 2, 1992, are available in denominations of 5,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1/4 pct selling and 1/4 pct management and underwriting combined. The deal is fully fungible with the 125 mln dlr zero coupon deal on the same terms issued for the authority early last month, Hambros said. REUTER 



LCE AND IPE TO INTRODUCE TIME-STAMPING

The London Commodity Exchange (LCE) and International Petroleum Exchange (IPE) are to introduce revised trading slip systems incorporating the time that futures business is executed, an LCE spokeswoman said. The LCE's six week trial system starts on April 1, with buyers and sellers filling in slips which carry not only the transaction, but also the date and time of execution. These slips will then have to be forwarded to market staff for entering into International Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) terminals within 15 minutes of the trade being transacted, the spokeswoman said. The IPE system is similar, although here traders will use time-stamping machines which automatically enter the date, as is the practice on futures exchanges in the U.S. And on the London International Financial Futures Exchange. Time-stamping of U.K. Futures business becomes mandatory later this year under the Financial Services Act, to meet the Securities and Investments Board's requirement on audit-trails, the LCE spokewoman said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 186 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP

The Bank of England said it had given the money market a further 186 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This brings the Bank's total help so far today to 945 mln stg and compares with its revised forecast of a one billion stg deficit. The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 51 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 135 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
DENMARK ISSUES 200 MLN ECU EUROBOND DUE 1992

Denmark is issuing a 200 mln ECU eurobond due April 23, 1992 paying 7-1/4 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Morgan Stanley International said. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000, 10,000 and 250,000 ECU and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting. Payment date is April 23. REUTER 
PRESSURE BUILDS ON THATCHER TO CALL ELECTION

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher came under fresh pressure for an early election today as financial indicators bolstered the government's forecasts of a boom in the economy following the budget earlier this week. Two of the country's leading lending institutions announced cuts in home loans rates following Wednesday's cut in interest rates by the main banks by half a point to 10 per cent. Analysts said today's reduction by Abbey National from 12.75 pct to 11.25, and one by the Halifax Building Society from 12.25 to 11.25 in lending rates for house buyers would be followed by other main institutions. One financial analyst commented: "I imagine the Abbey National is being toasted in Downing Street (the prime minister's residence) but not in the boardrooms of other big societies." Coupled with income tax cuts announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer (Finance Minister) Nigel Lawson in his budget last Tuesday as well as recent opinion polls showing Thatcher's rightwing Conservative Party well ahead of Labour and the centrist Alliance, they said pressure was now building up on Thatcher to call a general election as early as June. Yesterday there was more good news for Thatcher in the form of a continuing drop in the number of unemployed, with government minister predicting that it would fall below the three million mark before long. Reuter 
NO FORCE MAJEURE ON LEAD FROM CAPPER PASS

U.K. Smelter Capper Pass denied rumours that the company had declared, or was about to declare, force majeure on lead deliveries. This followed trader talk on the London Metal Exchange, LME, after broker bids were made at increased premiums for Capper Pass brand material. Traders said some slight production problems seem to exist but are unlikely to have any impact on the market. Lead values on the LME today were unchanged around 299 stg per tonne for three months delivery after thin business in a one stg range. Reuter 
UNIQUE EXPORT FINANCING BEING ARRANGED FOR MEXICO

A single purpose company, <Italfunding Ltd>, has been created for the purpose of obtaining funds on the international capital markets to refinance 44.3 mln dlrs of Mexico's official debt to Italy at very attractive rates, Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd said as lead manager and arranger. The transaction will be accomplished by Italfunding obtaining a 44.3 mln dlr euronote facility in the market and then using the proceeds to provide a loan for the same amount to Mexico. The loan will be 100 pct guaranteed by SACE, the official Italian export credit agency. Morgan Grenfell has used special purpose vehicles in the past to help refinance export credits for other indebted countries, such as Brazil and Ecuador. The Brazil financing, for example, involved the use of a floating rate note. This transaction makes use of another sector of the capital markets -- that for short-term note facilities -- to finance a medium term credit. The financing is being arranged in connection with a bilateral agreement between Mexico and SACE earlier this year to refinance Mexico's official debt to Italy. The bilateral accord followed a multilateral rescheduling agreement reached last September of Mexico's official debt to the Paris Club of western creditor governments. The Paris Club accord, in turn, was part of a broad-based rescheduling package covering 77 billion dlrs of Mexico's foreign debt. That package -- heralded as the first to incorporate all aspects of U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's plan to aid indebted countries -- included a 7.7 billion dlr loan, which was signed today in New York. The new financing for Italfunding, being syndicated among about five major international banks, will be a fully underwritten, revolving facility with an average life of seven years and the facility will fund the loan. All Paris Club agreements contain a generally accepted outline for a rescheduling, but the specific terms must then be negotiated on a bilateral basis. Banking sources noted that the use of a special-purpose vehicle will provide Mexico with particularly attractive financing at a rate of about 1/4 to 1/2 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor). The cost of the new financing compares with a spread of 13/16 pct on the loans in the new commercial bank package. This is because the intermediary providing the funds, in this case Italfunding, can obtain its funds relatively cheaply on the international markets. At the same time, the deal benefits the banks, which will still get a reasonable return on the note facility, which is pure Italian risk. The bankers noted that if the financing had been arranged in Italy, the cost to Mexico and the Italian banks would have been higher since the Italian banks would use a different source of funding. REUTER 
WESTPAC PERPETUAL FRN NO INSTANT CURE, DEALERS SAY

Morgan Guaranty Ltd's novel and complex repackaging of Westpac Banking Corp's perpetual floating rate note (FRN) may attract some investors, but is unlikely to aid current holders of the Westpac securities or the FRN market, FRN traders said. "It actually does nothing for anyone who has been stuffed and right now, that's the problem," said a trader at one U.K. Clearing bank that has also issued its own perpetuals. Trading in perpetual issues, which pay interest but never mature, has come to a virtual halt. Prices have fallen so far that only about five firms still make markets in them. The Westpac perpetual notes are technically now the property of a newly formed single-purpose finance subsidiary, Pacific Securities. If Morgan tried to find a home for the actual Westpac notes, as is, they would be paid no more than 85 cents on the dollar, at most, traders said. But the repackaging allows them to target a new class of investor for the notes and take the old issues off their books without registering a loss, the traders said. "The only one the repackaging favours is Morgan," a trader said. Meanwhile, the end-holders of perpetual notes, most of whom are Japanese banks, must still find a way to value them by year-end, now a week away. From Morgan's point of view, the repackaging does aid the present holders of the notes as well as offering value to a new class of investors. "At least we've put a floor under the price of the notes. We've created a way to set a real value for them," one Morgan official said. Morgan had earlier attempted, but abandoned, another plan to repackage the Westpac securities. Morgan's holdings of Westpac paper create special problems for it because of the way U.S. Regulators view bank holdings of the primary capital of other banks, traders said. Therefore, it is crucial that a vehicle for selling the paper be found. And indeed, note traders said, the FRN portion of the repackaged securities -- which Westpac has offered to redeem for cash in 15 years -- does have real value. For one thing, traders noted, it pays about the highest rate over the London Interbank Offered Rate of virtually any newly issued security. The spread is 50 basis points. However, the other portion of the security, in which the investor pays 20 cents on the dollar for a zero coupon 15-year bond, is of dubious value unless the Westpac perpetual assumes a market value near par 15 years from now, traders said. The zero-coupon portion could provide value for an account which for tax purposes, wants to take a large capital loss, the traders said. In the 15-year period between the time the note is purchased and the time it is redeemed, no interest is paid. When repayment finally occurs, it is not in cash like an ordinary zero-coupon bond. Instead, the investor receives one of the Westpac perpetual floaters. REUTER 
U.K. LEAD AND ZINC OFFTAKE RISES IN JANUARY

U.K. Consumption of lead and zinc in all forms during January rose to 26,314 and 18,778 tonnes, from 24,967 and 17,929 tonnes respectively in December, latest figures by the World Bureau of Metal Statistics (WBMS) show. Refined lead consumption rose to 23,992 tonnes from 23,194, while scrap offtake was 2,322 tonnes against 1,773. Slab zinc consumption was 14,257 tonnes against 14,190 during December, while offtake of scrap and re-melted metal was 4,521 tonnes against 3,739. Meanwhile production of refined lead in January rose to 28,188 tonnes from 23,693 in December, but slab zinc production fell to 4,490 tonnes from 5,793, the WBMS figures showed. Stocks of slab zinc totalled 14,780 tonnes, down from December's 15,008. Reuter 
LAWSON PLEDGES TO MAKE INFLATION TOP PRIORITY

British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson pledged to continue making defeat of inflation a top priority. Speaking to the ruling Central Council of the Conservative Party, Lawson said "We will continue to make defeat of inflation a top priority until it is eliminated altogether." Year on year inflation is running at 3.7 pct. Lawson said that under the government's program of selling off state industries to the private sector the number of share- holders in the country had trebled since 1979 and now represented one in five of the adult population. REUTER 
BANCO DI ROMA UNIT ARRANGES EURO-PAPER PROGRAM

Banco di Roma (London branch) has arranged a 200 mln dlr nominal Euro-commercial paper program, Swiss Bank Corporation International Ltd said as sold dealer. The borrower will be able to issue paper with maturities of seven to 365 days in other avialable currencies, such as European Currency Units. However, it could not issue sterling commercial paper because Bank of England rules prohibit an issuer of certificates of deposit to issue paper denominated in stg. Banco di Roma (London branch) has a certificate of deposit program in the market under which the securities are traded. The program will be aimed at end investor placement. Reuter 
POLL PUTS BRITISH ALLIANCE IN SECOND PLACE

Britain's centrist Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance has crept ahead of the opposition Labour party to become the country's second political force, according to a Gallup opinion poll. The poll, part of a survey carried out every week by Gallup on behalf of the ruling Conservative party, showed the Conservatives with an eight-point lead at 38.5 pct, the Alliance at 30.5 and Labour at 30 pct. It was published in the Sunday Telegraph. But two other surveys, the MORI poll conducted for the Sunday Times and the Harris poll published in the Observer newspaper, gave Labour a nine-point lead over the Alliance. These polls showed 33 pct supported Labour against 26 pct for the Alliance, a grouping of the Liberal Party and the Social Democratic Party, while 39 pct backed the Conservatives. The Gallup poll results are the latest in a series of setbacks for the Labour party, in disarray over its non-nuclear policy and plagued by internal feuding. REUTER 
EXPLOSION AT BP OIL REFINERY IN SCOTLAND

An explosion followed by a fire ripped through a British Petroleum (BP) oil refinery, killing one man. A BP spokesman said the fire was confined to one plant at the 700-acre refinery at Grangemouth, 25 miles west of Edinburgh. The cause and extent of the damage had yet to be determined. Two people were killed in a previous explosion and fire at the plant on March 13. That incident is still being investigated, the spokesman said. REUTER 
SAUDI ARABIA'S KING FAHD VISITS BRITAIN THIS WEEK

King Fahd of Saudi Arabia begins a four-day state visit on Tuesday which will focus on redressing Britain's large trade surplus with the kingdom and reaffirming ties between the traditionally close countries. British officials said King Fahd may ask Britain to restore diplomatic relations with Syria, broken off by London last October after evidence in the trial of Nizar Hindawi showed Syrian agents were behind a plan to bomb an Israeli airliner. But one official said the king would be told Britain still needs "clear and sustainable evidence that the Syrians have renounced state-sponsored terrorism. So far they haven't." Britain will stress its support for an international peace conference on the Middle East and its concern over alleged human rights abuses by Israel in the occupied West Bank and Gaza, the officials told Reuters. The Saudi leader will hold talks with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and meet Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip during the visit, his first to Britain since he assumed power in June 1982. King Fahd will be accompanied by his trade, defence, oil and health ministers, who will hold talks with their British counterparts. Relations between the two countries have generally been warm. But they were strained last year by the deportation of 35 British nurses from the kingdom for illegal drinking and the publication of a letter by a retired British ambassador describing Saudi Arabians as incompetent and arrogant. Saudi Arabia is Britain's largest export market in the Middle East. Britain exported 1.5 billion stg worth of goods to Saudi Arabia last year while British imports from that country in the same period totalled 436 mln. Trade officials will discuss what countertrade Britain can offer in return for Riyadh giving London its biggest-ever arms export order. Under the five billion stg deal signed last year, Saudi Arabia has agreed to buy 132 warplanes including 72 Tornado fighters. Saudi Oil Minister Hisham Nazer is likely to discuss oil price stabilisation but Britain would not change its refusal to limit its North Sea oil production and exports, officials said. Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, has asked all oil-producing countries to help stabilise oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel by curbing output and exports. King Fahd's trip follows several visits to Saudi Arabia by British officials in recent months. Britain's Prince Charles and Princess Diana went to Saudi Arabia in November. There were two previous state tours of Britain by Saudi monarchs. King Faisal visited in 1967 and King Khaled in 1981. REUTER 
LSI LOGIC ISSUES 100 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

LSI Logic Corp is issuing a 100 mln dlr convertible eurobond due April 14, 2002 with an indicated coupon of 5-3/4 to 6-1/4 pct and priced at par, Morgan Stanley International said as lead manager. Terms will be fixed within five days and the conversion premium is expected to be 24 to 26 pct above the share price. The bonds are non-callable before April 14, 1990 unless the share price exceeds 130 pct of the conversion price for 20 consecutive trading days. Any calls will be at 100 plus the coupon in year one, declining in equal amounts to 100 in 1997. Gross fees are 2-1/2 pct, with one pct for management and underwriting and 1-1/2 pct for selling, Morgan Stanley said. The bonds will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and listed in Luxembourg. Pay date is April 14. Co-lead is Pru-Bache Securities. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain around 1.18 billion stg while bankers balances below target will take out some 20 mln stg. Partly offseting these outflows, a fall in note circulation and exchequer transactions will add some 355 and 55 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 
INDIA BOUGHT 24,000 TONNES OF RBD OLEIN AT TENDER

The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought four cargoes of rbd palm olein totalling 24,000 tonnes at its vegetable oil import tender last week, traders said. Market reports on Friday said the STC had booked two cargoes. The business comprised three 6,000 tonne cargoes for June at 346 dlrs and 6,000 tonnes for July at 340 dlrs per tonne cif. It also secured a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil for May 15/Jun 15 shipment at 321 dlrs cif. REUTER 
TASMANIAN PUBLIC FINANCE HAS AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

The Tasmanian Public Finance Corp, guaranteed by the state of Tasmania, is issuing a 46 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 23, 1992 paying 14-3/4 pct and priced at 101-1/8 pct, lead manager Deutsche Bank Capital Markets said. The bond will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg and Frankfurt. Fees comprise 1-3/8 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
FINNISH EXPORT CREDIT ISSUES YEN BONDS

Finnish Export Corp is issuing a 20 billion yen bond maturing April 23, 1992 carrying a 4-3/8 pct coupon and priced at 102-3/4, said Yamaichi Securities International (Europe) Ltd. The bond are payable April 23, 1987 and are available in denominations of one mln yen. They will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
U.K. LONGER CYCLICAL INDICATOR RISES IN FEBRUARY

The U.K. Longer leading cyclical indicator rose in February by 5.8 pct after January's 1.9 pct rise, figures from the Central Statistical Office show. The indicator, base 1980, which shows trends in the economy 12 months ahead, was put at 108.7 in February compared with 102.7 in January and 99.5 in February 1986. The shorter leading indicator, signalling trends six months ahead, was put at 97.1 for January, the latest month for which data were available, after December's 96.5. This compared with 98.4 in January 1986. The coincident indicator, designed to signal current turning points in the economy, was put at 91.2 in January, down from 91.9 in December and 91.6 in january 1986. The lagging index, which the CSO says shows a turning point in the economy about a year after it happens, was at 92.4 in January, down from 92.5 in December and 93.0 a year earlier. The Office said leading indicators still do not show a consistent picture of the likely future developments of the business cycle in Britain. It said the strong rise in the longer leading index between December and February was due mainly to rises in share prices. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED DOWN

The Bank of England said it revised down its forecast of the deficit in the money market today to 750 mln stg from 800 mln. REUTER 
UNITED SCIENTIFIC UNIT LANDS 4.3 MLN DLR CONTRACT

Electro-optronic equipment makers <United Scientific Holdings Plc> said the Advanced Products Division of its U.S. Subsidiary <OEC Dallas, Texas> has been awarded a 4.3 mln dlr contract by the U.S. Army. The contract is for the production of high energy laser protection filters for binoculars. The three year contract already includes options to the value of eight mln dlrs. United reported pretax profit of 3.2 mln stg on turnover of 117.9 mln stg in the year ended September 1986. The company's shares were unchanged on Friday's close of 243p following today's announcement. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 97 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with help of 97 mln stg in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 750 mln stg shortage in the system today. The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 12 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 85 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
IRANIAN TANKER ATTACKED OVER WEEKEND - LLOYDS

The Iranian steam tanker Avaj, 316,379 tonnes dw, was attacked and hit at 1715 hours on March 21, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service reported. One person was killed. The tanker is owned by the National Iranian Tanker Co. REUTER 
(CORRECTED) - BANCO DI ROMA UNIT ARRANGES

Banco di Roma (London branch) has arranged a 200 mln dlr Euro-certificate of deposit program, Swiss Bank Corporation International Ltd said as sole dealer. The borrower also will have the option to issue certificates in other available currencies, including sterling. REUTER 
NIGERIA OPENS TALKS WITH U.K. TO RESCHEDULE DEBT

Representatives from Nigeria are meeting today and tomorrow with officials of Britain's Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) in the first of what could be a series of bilateral talks to reschedule Nigeria's official debts, banking sources said. The talks follow an agreement reached between Nigeria and the Paris Club of western creditor governments in December to reschedule some 7.5 billion dlrs of medium and long-term debt due between September, 1986 and end 1987 over 10 years with five years grace. Nigeria's official debts to the U.K., Its major trading partner, are estimated at 2.5 to three billion dlrs. If the talks prove successful, the Nigerian team, headed by Finance Minister Che Okongwu and Central Bank Governor Abdulkadir Ahmed, will hold similar talks with French export credit officials in Paris later this week, the sources said. An agreement could pave the way for ECGD to resume insurance cover for exports to Nigeria, which was suspended in 1983. The rescheduling of Nigeria's official debts was one of the demands required under a rescheduling of part of the country's estimated 19 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt, for which agreement also was reached in December between Nigeria and a steering committee representing the commercial banks. The commercial bank rescheduling has yet to be finalised because of the reluctance of Japanese banks to participate in the agreement, despite a recent trip to Japan by senior Nigerian officials and representatives of the steering committee. The entire package also is being held up because of the need to reach an agreement to satisfy arrears due on short-term insured and uninsured debts. However, bankers are hopeful that an accord will be struck by May 31. The Nigerians also are attempting to reconcile creditors' claims with their own receipts on some two billion dlrs of letters of credit contained in the commercial bank rescheduling. Bankers said that it was hoped that the ECGD would resume cover fairly soon as this could encourage other official creditors to begin bi-lateral talks as well. Under the structural adjustment program supporting the debt reschedulings Nigeria is due to receive 900 mln dlrs in fresh export credits this year from official export credit agencies. British exports to Nigeria were 565 mln stg in 1986, down from 960 mln in 1985, while Nigeria's exports to Britain, which do not include oil, were 328 mln stg and 647 mln, respectively. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 485 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it had given the money market a further 485 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so far today to 582 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 750 mln stg shortage in the system today. The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising 345 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct and 75 mln stg in band two at 9-3/16 pct. It also purchased 65 mln stg of treasury bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER 
WAITE KIDNAPPED AS SPY - TEHRAN RADIO

Tehran radio said British church envoy Terry Waite, missing in Beirut since January 20, had been kidnapped as a spy by a Lebanese group. "Terry Waite was taken hostage by an armed Lebanese group, calling itself the Revolutionary Justice Organisation. He has been accused of espionage activities," said the radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation. Reuter 
GREECE SEEKING EC SUGAR NEXT MONTH AT TENDER

Greece will hold a buying tender on April 8, for reply by April 10, for 40,000 tonnes of white sugar from EC member countries, for delivery in four equal tranches in May, June, July and August, traders said. Reuter 
TOKAI BANK DOUBLES STERLING CD FACILITY

The Tokai Bank Ltd, London Branch, is doubling the size of a sterling certificate of deposit issuance facility established last year to 200 mln stg from the original 100 mln, Chemical Bank International Ltd said as arranger. The increase reflects active use of the facility from the first month after signing and growing international interest from institutional investors at sub-LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rates) levels. Barclay's de Zoete Wedd Ltd has been added to the group of dealers for the program. REUTER 
COMMUNAUTE URBAINE DE MONTREAL ISSUES NOTES

Communaute Urbaine de Montreal is issuing a 75 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 22, 1997 carrying a coupon of 8-7/8 pct and priced at 101-5/8, Banque Nationale de Paris said as lead manager. The notes are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Payment date is April 22, 1987. The issuers' outstanding securities are rated A-plus by Standard and Poor's Corp. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 combined management and underwriting fee. REUTERS 
TIN PACT SPECIAL SESSION THIS WEEK ROUTINE

A further special session of the International Tin Council, ITC, held here tomorrow, March 24, will give member countries an update on the latest debate over the hundreds of millions of sterling lost when its buffer stock price support scheme failed in October 1985, delegates said. But the ITC quarterly session scheduled for April 8-9 will be important, as the council will by then be wanting to decide on whether the current pact should be extended beyond June 30 or just allowed to expire, delegates said. A two year extension is possible. Reuter 
TIN COUNCIL WINDING-UP VERDICT APPEALED

Amalgamated Metal Trading, AMT, today lodged an appeal against the ruling which prevented its petition to wind up the International Tin Council, ITC. The verdict was given by Mr Justice Millett on January 22, when AMT led an effort by ITC creditors to recover sums claimed by banks and London Metal Exchange brokers as a result of the collapse of the ITC's buffer stock operations in October 1985. AMT had until March 26 to lodge its appeal. The grounds for the appeal are that the judge erred on three points when giving his verdict, Michael Arnold, head of the broker creditors group Tinco Realisations, told Reuters. The judge ruled that the U.K. Court had no jurisdiction to wind up the Tin Council, that the ITC was not an association within the meaning of the Companies Act, and that the winding-up petition was not a proceeding in respect of an arbitration award. AMT will contest all three points. The U.K. Companies Act allows the possibility of the winding-up of what it defines as an association, and AMT will argue that the Tin Council falls within this definition, Arnold said. The ITC has immunity except for the enforcement of an arbitration award, and thus it is important for AMT that the court accepts that the winding-up petition represents a move to enforce an arbitration ruling. The court originally decided that the winding-up petition went wider than the enforcement of such a debt, an AMT spokesman said. The appeal is unlikely to be heard for several months, but a case brought by fellow ITC creditor Maclaine Watson is to be heard on April 28. This is a move by the metal broker to have a receiver appointed over the ITC's assets. Since similar arguments will be used in this case, it is possible that any appeal in the Maclaine Watson case could be consolidated with AMT's appeal, Arnold said. Other ITC creditors have brought direct actions against the Council's member states and an application by the governments to strike out the first of these, brought by J.H. Rayner (Mincing Lane) Ltd, is to be heard on May 11. Shearson Lehman Brothers action against the LME's tin "ring-out" in March 1986 is also scheduled to be heard in the near future. The hearing date has now been put back slightly to June 8. Reuter 
SOVIET CLAIMS TO BE TREATED EQUALLY - ACCOUNTANTS

All claims to be settled under a U.K./Soviet pact agreed last year in connection with pre-revolutionary Russian bonds and seized assets will be treated equally, Price Waterhouse and Co (PW) said. It said that the treatment for the bonds had not actually been determined, although it had been estimated that holders would receive about 10 pct of the nominal value of the bonds, which was the percentage to be assigned to property claims. Now, "the face value of the bond will be added to the value of the property. A dividend will then be calculated and all claims will be treated equally," PW said. PW administers the Russian Compensation Fund, which was set up by the Foreign Office in 1917 to oversee some 45 mln stg in pre-revolutionary reserves for claimants of assets seized during the Revolution. PW, which is currently accepting applications for the claims, said that to date, 2,000 bond application forms and 600 property application forms have been returned. Because the number of applications and bonds returned is increasing rapidly, a special office where the claims are being processed will remain open beyond the close of business until midnight on March 31, the deadline for claims to be submitted. Reuter 
UK DISCUSSES INSIDER TRADING WITH CHANNEL ISLANDS

Talks have occurred between Britain and the offshore financial centers of the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man aimed at reaching a pact to limit insider dealing, Corporate Affairs Minister Michael Howard said. He told Parliament in a written answer that "there have been informal talks at official level. I would hope, in due course, to arrive at arrangements" along the lines of an agreed policy to curb trading which uses privileged information. The Channel Islands and the Isle of Man are constitutionally independent of Britain's parliament, and have fiscal regimes sympathetic to business and the accumulation of capital. Reuter 
U.K. PROFITTED FROM AUTUMN INTERVENTION - LAWSON

Britain has reaped profits by using a stronger pound to buy back dollars used by the government last autumn to support sterling during a currency crisis, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said. He said in a parliamentary debate, "I can now tell the House (of Commons) that the dollars that were sold from the reserves in September and October (1986) have subsequently all been repurchased - at a profit of some tens of millions of pounds." Hindsight had proved him right to resist market pressures then for a two percentage point interest rate rise, he said. The increase in base rates was instead limited then to one point. During a debate on the 1987/88 British budget which Lawson unveiled last week, he said that "during the period of foreign exchange market turbulence which followed the somewhat inconclusive Group of Five and Group of Seven meetings at the end of September, I authorised the Bank of England to intervene unusually heavily in order to buy breathing space that would enable me to confine the interest rate rise to one pct rather than the two pct the market was then pressing for." He said that that one percentage point increase, effected in October 1986, had been reversed by this month's two half point cuts in banks' base lending rates. They are now at 10 pct. Treasury figures show that the underlying change in British reserves - seen as a guide to possible Bank of England intervention on foreign exchange markets - suggest that the authorities sold around 1.0 billion dlrs during September and October 1986, government sources said. Reuter 
CBI SURVEY POINTS TO SURGE IN U.K. OUTPUT

British manufacturers expect output to grow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation of British Industry (CBI) survey shows. The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pct of the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in the next four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47 pct said production would likely remain unchanged. The CBI said the positive balance between firms expecting production to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, was the highest such figure recorded since 1977. In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expected a rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remain at present levels and eight pct expected production to drop. The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companies consider current order books to be above normal while 58 pct view them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as below normal. This was the highest positive balance since the question was first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said. In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pct respectively. Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Of all polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books to be above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only 23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels. In February, 25 pct thought their export books were below normal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct, the proportion of companies rating their export books above normal was unchanged between February and March. On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companies expect average prices at which domestic orders are booked will remain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct in February. From 38 pct in February, only 31 pct of firms now expect prices to rise before July. Six pct forecast prices will fall, against four pct a month earlier. Commenting on the survey, CBI economic situation committee chairman David Wigglesworth said sterling's more competitive level against many European currencies had improved exports. "But interest rates are still much higher than in our competitor countries and British manufacturers will still have to work hard to win new business both in overseas markets and in the substitution of British-made goods for imports here at home," he said. REUTER 
U.K., AUSTRALIA OFFER WHEAT TO BANGLADESH

Britain and Australia have offered a total of 129,250 tonnes of wheat to Bangladesh as grants to contain rising cereal prices and help support rural employment projects, officials said. They said 79,250 tonnes of wheat promised by Britain would be shipped next week and used for the government's "Food for Work" program in the villages. Under the program, workers building roads, digging irrigation canals and engaged in other rural development activities get their daily wages in wheat instead of money. The 50,000 tonnes of Australian wheat would arrive in Bangladesh next month and be sold under open-market operations designed to stop price increases, the officials said. Prices of rice and wheat have risen at least 15 pct in the past month, market sources said. But the government expects prices to fall after the wheat harvest next month. REUTER 
AMERICAN CAN ISSUING 150 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

American Can Co <AC.N> is issuing a 150 mln dlr convertible eurobond due April 22, 2002 carrying an indicated coupon of 5-1/2 to 5-7/8 pct priced at par, lead manager Morgan Stanley International said. Terms will be set this week with a conversion premium of 25 to 28 pct. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and be listed in Luxembourg. There is no call for three years, subsequently at par plus the coupon, declining by equal amounts per annum until 1997. Fees comprise 1-1/2 pct selling concession and one pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 300 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 300 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 338 mln stg while bankers' balances below target will take out around 25 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall in note circulation and exchequer transactions will add some 45 mln stg and 25 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 



BARBADOS SEEKING 25 MLN STG REVOLVING CREDIT

Barbados is making its annual trip to the international capital markets a bit earlier this year and has mandated Barclays Bank Plc to arrange a 25 mln stg revolving credit, Barclays said. The financing will be for seven years, with four years grace, and will allow the borrower to make drawings in U.S. Dollars. The credit will be transferable and carry interest at 1-1/8 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate. There is a commitment fee of 1/2 pct. Banks are being invited to join at four mln stg for 50 basis points and at 2.5 mln stg for 40 basis points. The terms represent an improvement over those obtained last year, when Barbados tapped the market for a 25 mln dlr transferable loan facility, which carried the same maturity but had interest at 1-1/4 pct over Libor. The facility was subsequently increased to 40 mln dlrs. However, the loan was not signed until November 5, and bankers said that this year Barbados wanted to have the financing in place early to give it greater flexibility in drawing the funds over the course of the year. Last year Barbados boosted its capital market borrowings with a small private yen placement in the Japanese market. At the signing of the 40 mln dlr facility, Winston Cox, advisor to the Central Bank of Barbados, said he was looking to make greater use of the international capital markets to reduce the country's dependence on multi-national orgainsations. However, bankers believe this will be the country's only major financing for this year, although another small private placement in Japan could be arranged later in the year. REUTER 
SKANDINAVISKA ENSKILDA ISSUES YEN BONDS

Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken is issuing a 10 billion yen bond due October 23, 1992 carrying a coupon of 4-1/2 pct and priced at 101-3/8, lead manager Daiwa Securities International (Europe) Ltd said. The securities wil be listed on the London Stock Exchange and will be available in denominations of one mln yen each. Payment date is April 23, 1987. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
ASEA CAPITAL ISSUES 10 BILLION YEN BOND

ASEA Capital Corp BV is issuing a 10 billion yen bond due April 23, 1992 carrying a coupon of 4-1/2 pct and priced at 102-3/8, Mitsui Finance International Ltd said as lead manager. The securities, which are guaranteed by parent company ASEA Capital, will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. There is a put and a call option in 1990 at par. The securities are available in denominations of one mln yen each and are payable on April 23, 1987. The company's outstanding issues are rated AA-minus by Standard and Poor's Corp. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
FERRANTI UNIT LANDS MULTI MLN DLR CONRTACT

Ferranti Plc <FNTI.L> said its Edinburgh based electro-optics department of Ferranti Defence Systems Ltd has secured a multi mln dlr contract to supply laser rangefinders for the Canadian Forces Low Level Air Defense System. The first production order for 38 of the type 629G lasers has been placed by <Martin Marietta> of the U.S., A subcontractor to <Orelikon Aerospace Incorporated> of Canada, the prime contractor for the system. Some 300 further orders are anticipated as the programme proceeds. Ferranti shares were 2p firmer at 134 after the news. REUTER 
AMERICAN CAN ISSUING 150 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

American Can Co <AC.N> is issuing a 150 mln dlr convertible eurobond due April 22, 2002 carrying an indicated coupon of 5-1/2 to 5-7/8 pct priced at par, lead manager Morgan Stanley International said. Terms will be set this week with a conversion premium of 25 to 28 pct. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and be listed in Luxembourg. There is no call for three years, subsequently at par plus the coupon, declining by equal amounts per annum until 1997. Fees comprise 1-1/2 pct selling concession and one pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
CBI SURVEY POINTS TO SURGE IN U.K. OUTPUT

British manufacturers expect output to grow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation of British Industry (CBI) survey shows. The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pct of the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in the next four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47 pct said production would likely remain unchanged. The CBI said the positive balance between firms expecting production to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, was the highest such figure recorded since 1977. In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expected a rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remain at present levels and eight pct expected production to drop. The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companies consider current order books to be above normal while 58 pct view them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as below normal. This was the highest positive balance since the question was first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said. In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pct respectively. Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Of all polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books to be above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only 23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels. In February, 25 pct thought their export books were below normal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct, the proportion of companies rating their export books above normal was unchanged between February and March. On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companies expect average prices at which domestic orders are booked will remain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct in February. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 115 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 115 mln stg assistance in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a 300 mln stg shortage in the system today. The central bank bought bills outright in band two at 9-13/16 pct comprising 73 mln stg bank bills and 42 mln stg local authority bills. REUTER 
BOMB EXPLODES AT BRITISH ARMY BASE, 30 INJURED

A huge car bomb exploded at the headquarters of the British Army of the Rhine last night, injuring about 30 people just hours after British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher left the West German capital. A British Army spokeswoman said today that seven people were still being treated for minor injuries in hospitals in the Moenchengladbach area, near the Rheindahlen base, after being being hit by flying shards of glass from the blast. The 100-kg bomb went off outside an officers' mess at 10.30 P.M. (2130 GMT), ripping a crater half a meter (1.5 feet) deep and three meters (nine feet) wide in the ground, and could be heard several kilometers (miles) away, a police spokesman said. An anonymous caller, speaking English, telephoned the West German domestic news agency Deutsche Presse Agentur just before the explosion and said a bomb was about to go off at the base. Thatcher left Bonn early yesterday evening after talks with with Chancellor Helmut Kohl ahead of her visit to Moscow next week. She had flown to West Germany from talks with French President Francois Mitterrand in Normandy earlier in the day. Officers of the Nato Northern Army Group, which is also based at Rheindahlen, were holding a social dinner attended by British and West German servicemen and their wives inside the mess when the bomb went off. Reuter 
SOVIET SUGAR IMPORTS HIGHER IN OCT/NOV

Soviet sugar imports in October and November were significantly higher than in the same period of the year before, according to figures received by the International Sugar Organization. Imports in October totalled 23,803 tonnes, compared with 4,685 tonnes in the same month of 1985, while November imports were up to 136,029 tonnes from 46,541. For the first 11 months of 1986, Soviet imports totalled 5.12 mln tonnes, against 4.30 mln in the same period of 1985. The October 1986 import figure consisted entirely of whites from Cuba, while the November total was made up of 84,037 tonnes Cuban whites and 51,992 tonnes whites from Thailand. Of the imports in the January/November period, those from Cuba were up to 3.81 mln tonnes from 3.65 mln and from Thailand to 292,808 tonnes from 22,800. Soviet exports also increased in 1986. The January/November export total of 289,232 compares with 165,859 tonnes in the first 11 months of 1985. Exports in October 1986 were 20,064, down from 38,853 a year earlier, while November exports were up from 32,796 to 50,855 tonnes. REUTER 
SCHLESWIG HOLSTEIN LB ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Schleswig-Holstein Landesbank (LB) Finance BV is issuing a 30 mln Australian dlr bond due April 30, 1990 carrying a coupon of 14-5/8 pct and priced at 101-3/8, said ANZ Merchant Bank Ltd as lead manager. The securities are guaranteed by parent company, Schleswig-Holstein Landesbank Girozentrale and will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. They are available in denominations of 1,000 dlrs. Payment date is April 30. There is a one pct selling concession and a 1/2 pct combined underwriting and management fee. REUTER 
BET WINS APPROVAL FOR U.S. SHARE ISSUE

British services company BET Plc <BETL.L> said its shareholders had given it approval to raise up to 170 mln dlrs through a share issue to U.S. Investors. A company spokesman told Reuters the issue of up to 44 mln shares will be in the form of American Depository Receipts (ADRs) and that the total amount to be raised will probably be 75 to 100 mln dlrs, depending on market conditions. The issue is due to be completed in August, he said. BET shareholders also approved a one-for-one free share issue to existing stockholders, the cancellation of preferred stock and new articles of association, the company said. REUTER 
BRITISH TELECOM AWARDS ORDERS WORTH 73 MLN STG

British Telecommunications Plc <BTY.L> said orders worth around 73 mln stg have been awarded to three British firms following competitive tendering for more than 500,000 lines of advanced digital local exchange equipment. The orders have been placed with <GEC Telecommunications>, <Plessey Major Systems> and <Thorn Ericsson Telecommunications>. Plessey and GEC will between them supply some 455,000 lines of System X equipment worth a total of more than 64 mln stg while Thorn Ericsson has received orders for more than 70,000 lines of AXE10 exchanges, valued at around eight mln stg. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 104 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with assistance of 104 mln stg in the afternoon session. This takes the bank's total help so far today to 219 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a 300 mln stg shortage. The central bank bought outright 104 mln stg in bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 10 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late help of about 10 mln stg. This takes the bank's total help today to some 229 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a 300 mln stg shortage. REUTER 
CREDIT NATIONAL ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Credit National is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond, due April 23, 1992 with a 7-3/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-5/8 pct, LTCB International said as lead manager. The bonds, guaranteed by the French government, will be issued in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Gross fees of 1-7/8 pct comprise 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined and 1-1/4 pct for selling. REUTER 
SOUTH AFRICA/BANKS AGREE NEW TERMS TO REPAY DEBT

Representatives of South Africa's Standstill Coordinating Committee (SCC) and its commercial bank creditors have agreed new terms covering repayments of 14 billion dlrs of debt, banking sources said. The debt is covered by a standstill agreement that expires June 30. Under the new accord, the standstill will be extended for three years to June 30, 1990. There will be an immediate repayment of three pct to all the banks, to be followed by various payments at six-month intervals over the life of the agreement totalling some 1.5 billion dlrs. The three pct payment will be due July 15, 1987. Subsequent repayments will be determined under a complex structure which will be based on the maturity structure of individual banks' loans, the bankers said. The bankers, who declined to be identified, said the agreement also will give banks the option to convert their existing debt into term loans for 10-years, with five years grace. An agreement reached last year allowed for the conversion of the short-term debt covered by the standstill into three-year loans. Bankers said today's talks concluded months of intense negotiations. They said the South African Finance Ministry is expected to make a statement on the agreement later today. A review of South Africa's economy by the economic subcommittee of commercial banks is nearing completion and should be announced shortly, the bankers said. No further details were immediately available. REUTER 
LB RHEINLAND-PFALZ ISSUES AUSTRALIA DLR BOND

Landesbank Rheinland-Pfalz Finance BV is issuing a zero coupon 75 mln Australia dlr bond due May 7, 1992 priced at 52-3/4 pct for an effective yield to maturity of 14-1/4 pct, said Orion Royal Bank as lead manager. The issue is guaranteed by parent company Landesbank Rheinland-Pfalz Girozentrale, which is jointly owned by the West German state of Rheinland-Pfalz and local savings banks. Payment is set for May 7 and the securities will be listed on the Luxembourg stock exchange. Denominations are 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs with a 7/8 pct selling concession and a combined management and underwriting fee of 1/2 pct. REUTER 
BAYERISCHE VEREINSBANK SELLS WARRANTS ON BONDS

Bayerische Vereinsbank is issuing 100,000 "naked warrants' at 15 dlrs each, which are convertible for up to one year into a 1,000 Australia dlr bond due April 30, 1992, said Merrill Lynch capital markets as lead manager. Payment is due April 30, 1987 and total fees are three pct. Of that, there is a two pct selling concession with the remainder a combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
BANCO DI SICILIA INTERNATIONAL ISSUES EUROBOND

Banco di Sicilia International SA is issuing a 30 mln U.S. Dlr, zero coupon eurobond due April 15, 1992 and priced at 70.40, Nomura International Ltd said as joint bookrunner. The bonds, which yield an effective 7.66 pct per annum, will be listed in Luxembourg and will be issued in denominations of 10,000 dlrs. They are guaranteed by Banco di Sicilia. Gross fees of 1-1/4 pct comprise 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined and 3/4 pct for selling. Pay date is April 15. The other joint bookrunner is Yasuda Trust and Banco di Sicilia is co-lead. REUTER 
GHANA COCOA PURCHASES STILL AHEAD OF LAST YEAR

The Ghana Cocoa Board said it purchased 456 tonnes of cocoa in the 23rd week, ended March 12, of the 1986/87 main crop season, compared with 684 tonnes the previous week and 784 tonnes in the 23rd week ended March 20 of the 1985/86 season. Cumulative purchases so far this season stand at 217,235 tonnes, ahead of the 203,884 tonnes purchased by the 23rd week of last season, the board said. Reuter 
AMERICAN EXPRESS UNIT ISSUES NEW ZEALAND DLR BOND

American Express Overseas Credit Corp is issuing a 50 mln New Zealand dlr bond due April 27, 1990 carrying a coupon of 18 pct and priced at 101-1/4, said Hambros Bank Ltd as lead manager. The issue is guaranteed by American Express Co. Payment is set for April 27, 1987 and the securities will be listed on the Luxembourg stock exchange. There is a one pct selling concession and a 1/2 pct combined underwriting and management fee. REUTER 
LEEDS PERMANENT ISSUES 50 MLN STG BOND

Leeds Permanent Building Society is issuing a 50 mln stg offering of notes due April 23, 1992 carrying a coupon of 9-1/4 pct and priced at 100-7/8, said Barings Securities Co as lead manager. Bankers Trust International is co-lead manager. The issue is partly paid, with only 20 pct of the payment due on April 23 and the remainder due October 23. The issue is priced to yield 50 basis points over comparable maturity gilts. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
NIGERIA, BRITAIN TO RESCHEDULE OFFICIAL DEBT

Nigeria and Britain signed an agreement to reschedule Nigeria's official debts in the first of an expected series of such talks, government sources said. The agreement was signed by Nigerian Finance Minister Chu Okongwu and the Export Credits Guarantee Department's (ECGD) chief executive Jack Gill. The Nigerians will go on to Paris for similar bilateral talks tomorrow with Coface, the French export credit agency. Today's agreement follows an agreement between Nigeria and the Paris Club of western creditor governments in December to reschedule some 7.5 billion dlrs of official debt. The Paris Club agreement was for a rescheduling of the 7.5 billion dlrs of medium and long-term debt due between September 1986 and end 1987 over 10 years with five years grace. But as with all Paris Club pacts, specific interest rates and other details have to be negotiated on a bi-lateral basis with the countries involved. None of the details contained in today's negotiations was immediately available. The Nigerians are hoping that further bilateral accords can be struck fairly soon as this could encourage official export credit agencies to renew insurance cover for exports to Nigeria. The ECGD suspended its cover for exports to Nigeria in 1983. Despite the success of the talks over the past two days, govenment sources said there had not been any discussions on new credits. Nigeria is due to receive 900 mln dlrs in fresh export credits this year from official agencies under a structrual adjustment program drawn up by Nigeria and the World Bank to support a rescheduling of part of the country's 19 billion dlr foreign debt. But these credits cannot be approved until the export credit agencies agree to resume insuring the debts. REUTER 
STERLING OUTLOOK CLOUDED BY TEST OF PARIS ACCORD

The move by foreign exchange markets to test the strength of the Paris currency accord has thrown into question the near-term outlook for sterling, until recently one of the main beneficiaries of the agreement, analysts said. Since the six-nation accord last month, sterling has risen sharply, adding almost five pct on its trade-weighted index. While the accord effectively stifled dollar/yen and dollar/mark movements, the markets turned their attention to sterling as foreign investors rushed to take advantage of relatively high U.K. Interest rates. But analysts say the pound has been sidelined by the first tentative test of the Paris accord seen yesterday. The market now looks set sooner or later to push the dollar down further in a test of the willingness of central banks to intervene. Analysts say if the banks do not intervene effectively, the Paris accord could collapse. "On balance, sterling would be a net sufferer if G-6 collapses," Phillips and Drew analyst Stephen Lewis said. He said sterling would lose out as markets turned their attention to capital movements whereas previously they had been restricted to looking only at the interest yield on currencies. However, although most analysts and foreign exchange dealers were forecasting a brief period of consolidation or even retracement for sterling, none were expecting a very sharp drop in the U.K. Currency. Sterling remained supported by optimism on the U.K. Political and economic outlook, firmer oil prices and relatively high interest rates, they said. Bullish sentiment on the U.K. Economic outlook has been running especially high after last week's budget, seen as popular both with the markets and with British voters. Sterling was also supported by signs of a weakening in the West German and Japanese economies, where growth for 1987 is trailing behind the three pct forecast for the U.K. Recent opinion polls showing Britain's ruling conservative party ahead of opposition parties in popularity have also supported the pound. In addition, sterling has so far shrugged off two half-point cuts in U.K. Bank base lending rates in less than two weeks. A further half-point cut, widely expected in the next week or so, has already been largely discounted. U.K. Base rates, now running at 10 pct, are still relatively high compared to other western countries, and analysts said a further base rate cut to 9-1/2 pct was unlikely to affect sterling. Sterling today appeared resilient to the dollar's decline, dropping only slightly on a cross-rate basis. Worries about renewed turbulence in the foreign exchange markets, however, were reflected in the U.K. Government bond (gilt) market, where prices dropped by up to 5/16 point. Until now foreign investor interest in the gilt market has been one of the major reasons behind the rise in sterling. Dealers said they expected the pound to hold quietly steady for the next few days while the market awaits further developments on the dollar and this Thursday's U.K. Current account figures for February. Market forecasts are for a deficit of around 250 mln stg after January's small surplus. REUTER 
EC MEMBER STATES COOL ON CEREAL PLANS

European Community (EC) member states have generally given a cool initial reaction to proposals by the European Commission for cereal price changes and related measures in the coming season, EC diplomats said. They said that in meetings of the EC Special Committee on Agriculture representatives of most member states had said the changes, taken together, would have too harsh an impact on farmers' incomes. Only Britain and the Netherlands had shown willingness to accept the commission's overall package, they said. As well as cuts of over two pct in common prices for most cereals, the commission proposes a limitation of intervention to the February to March period and reduced monthly increments in intervention prices. EC Farm Ministers will have a first discussion of the proposals at a meeting beginning next Monday. Reuter 
TIN PACT EXTENSION LIKELY - ITC DELEGATES

An extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement, ITA, for one or two years beyond June 30 is increasingly likely, International Tin Council, ITC, delegates said following a special council session today. A formal decision will be taken at the quarterly council session on April 8-9 when decisions are needed on the budget and activities for the year beginning July one, they stated. Delegates said most countries now favour a continued legal ITC presence to answer the still unresolved legal disputes over the outstanding debts of its buffer stock with court hearings likely to continue well after the June 30 expiry of the pact. The ITC was informally told of the appeal made yesterday by Amalgamated Metal Trading Ltd, AMT, against the January court ruling against it in the legal bid it led on behalf of ITC creditor brokers to have the ITC wound up. In January the judge ruled that the U.K. Court had no jurisdiction to wind up the tin council, the ITC was not an association within the meaning of the U.K. Companies act, and the winding-up petition was not a proceeding in respect in respect of an arbitration award. AMT is appealing on all points and has said it is important for the court to accept that a winding-up petition is a move to enforce an arbitration ruling. Reuter 
COCOA BUFFER STOCK ACCORD CLOSER, DELEGATES SAY

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) moved closer to an agreement on buffer stock rules, with many delegates saying they expect to reach an accord by Friday. "Everyone is convinced the buffer stock rules should be in place by Friday so the buffer stock can be put into operation Monday," a consumer delegate said. "The atmosphere is excellent." Other delegates said the buffer stock might not be operational by Monday but could be in place by around April 1, if the rules are agreed by Friday. A detailed package on how the buffer stock manager will buy and sell cocoa was presented to a buffer stock working group this afternoon -- a big step toward a "very interesting stage of negotiations," delegates said. The package, based on negotiating principles informally agreed by delegates, has been forged bit by bit during fortnight-long meetings by ICCO Executive Director Kobena Erbynn and a small group of other delegates. Producers, the European Community (EC) and consumers are scheduled to consider the paper separately and then jointly tomorrow. Under the proposal, the buffer stock manager would buy cocoa from origins or the second-hand market on an offer system. He would alert the market via news agencies as to when he wanted to buy cocoa and include shipment details and tonnage desired, delegates said. The manager would buy cocoa on a competitive basis, rather than choosing the cheapest cocoa as before, giving preference to ICCO member-country exporters. Standard price differentials would be fixed for each origin, similar to golf handicaps, to determine the relative competitiveness of offers of various cocoas from different origins, they said. The differentials could be reviewed at the request of a member country or recommendation of the buffer stock manager, the delegates said. Revision would be decided by a majority vote of the ICCO council. Buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries would not be allowed to exceed 10 pct of the total buffer stock, they said. The purchases would be limited to 5,000 tonnes of cocoa per day and 20,000 tonnes per week, and could be bought in nearby, intermediate and forward positions, they added. One of the underlying ideas of the rules package is "transparency," meaning virtually all the buffer stock manager's market activities will be public and he will have as little discretion as possible, delegates said. After the tin market collapse in 1985, when the International Tin Council buffer stock ran out of funds, cocoa delegates are anxious to install safeguards in the cocoa market mechanism, they said. Earnest debate on the buffer stock proposal is expected to begin late tomorrow, as delegations feel the pressure of the approaching Friday deadline, when the ICCO meeting is due to adjourn, delegates said. The ICCO failed to agree buffer stock rules in January when the new International Cocoa Agreement came into force. The existing buffer stock of 100,000 tonnes of cocoa was frozen in place with its bank balance of 250 mln dlrs -- both untouchable until rules are agreed. Though the current semi-annual council meeting is not the last chance for delegates to cement buffer stock rules, producers are keen to get the wheels of the market-stabilizing mechanism turning to stem the decline in world prices, delegates said. Reuter 
HAITI, CZECHOSLOVAKIA JOIN COCOA ORGANIZATION

Haiti and Czechoslovakia have joined the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), bringing membership in the United Nations charter body to 18 importing countries and 17 exporters, ICCO officials said. Haiti has provisionally applied to the ICCO as an exporting member, and accounts for 0.92 pct of world cocoa exports, they said. Czechoslovakia joined as an importer. Reuter 
NEW S.AFRICA ACCORD WITH BANKS BROUGHT COMPROMISE

A new agreement covering the repayment of part of South Africa's foreign debt represents a compromise between that country and its commercial bank creditors following several weeks of intense and difficult negotiations, senior banking sources said. In Pretoria, Reserve Bank Governor Gerhard De Kock termed the agreement a "good deal" for both South Africa and the banks. But as one senior banker noted, "It is probably the best we could hope for. We (the banks) wanted more money and they (the South Africans) didn't want to pay." The new agreement will extend for three years the standstill arrangement that has been in place since August 1985 and which was due to expire on June 30. Depending on the maturity of the various debts, banks will receive on July 15 repayments representing three pct of the arrears and the overdue debt covered by the standstill. It also will require the repayment over the life of the standstill of another 10 pct of the overdue debt spread over six month invervals and depending on the maturity of the various debts for a total of slightly more than 1.4 billion dlrs. Last year South Africa repaid about 500 mln dlrs out of the 14 billion dlrs covered by the standstill. At the time, bankers had argued - unsuccessfully - for a larger repayment given the country's trade surplus of 2.5 billion dlrs. Bankers had hoped that this time they could secure an even larger repayment of around one billion dlrs. Although there had been speculation that the standstill would be extended for three years, many did not believe that a long term pact would be acceptable to U.S. banks. Those banks have taken a hard line in the negotiations because of America's strong anti-apartheid policies. The agreement reached today differs very little from the one reached a little over a year ago. However, it does include one moderation of an option contained in that pact which introduces yet another "catchphrase" into the jargon for reschedulings. The new agreement contains an "exit vehicle" under which banks can convert their debt into 10 year loans. Under the previous agreement banks were only given options for three year loans. While the option may be unpalatable to the U.S. banks, it could offer others a potential repayment of slightly more than half their investment over the next seven years. To convert the debts, a bank would have to find a borrower looking for a loan with a 10-year maturity and then negotiate individually the interest rates to be charged. The loans would not represent any new money and as the loan would be the obligation of the new borrower there would be a repayment stream that could give the bank as much as 52 pct of face value by year seven, one banker said. Bankers suggested that depending on a banks' political and economic forecasts for South Africa, if it decided to take the option it may not have much difficulty finding such borrowers. They noted that South Africa's Public Investment Commission is an active borrower in this area of the market. Today's agreement was reached between South Africa's chief debt negotiator Chris Stals, who chairs its Standstill Coordinating Commmittee and representatives of the 12 banks on the commercial bank technical committee. The bankers said that telexes will be sent today to the country's other 330 bank creditors and that documentation covering the proposal will be mailed out shortly. Because of the banks' sensitivity to South Africa's apartheid regime, the previous negotiations were conducted with Fritz Leutwiler, the former head of the Swiss National Bank, acting as mediator. Leutwiler was not involved with these talks and has not involved himself in the negotiations since last year, the bankers said. Last time, the banks sent their responses on the proposal to Leutwiler who in turn notified the South Africans. This time the procedure will be less structured and will be up to the individual banks as to how they wish to handle it. Although talks had been held in recent weeks between the South Africans and the banks, the completion of the agreement on the repayments took many in the financial community by surprise. A review of South Africa's economy by the technical committee's economic sub-committee was to be held in February while the talks for the rescheduling were due to start some time this month or next month. However, the bankers said that because of all the publicity which surrounds South African debt negotiations, the meetings were kept secret. Reuter 
ABBEY NATIONAL HAS ONE BILLION DLR EURO CD PACT

Abbey National, the second largest building society in the U.K., Said it has arranged a one billion dlr euro-certificate of deposit program. It said this is the largest such program to date for a building society and the first to be denominated in U.S. Dollars. Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd is lead manager and arranger for the program and will act as a dealer, along with Shearson Lehman Brothers International, Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. Abbey National has been very active in the international capital markets ever since building societies were permitted by law to tap the wholesale markets. The building society's general manager, finance, James Tyrrell, said in a statement the program is part of Abbey's strategy of spreading its funding option from what has recently been medium/long term into shorter term instruments. He said this also widens Abbey's investor base. REUTER 
ENSERCH ISSUES 100 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Enserch Inc is issuing 100 mln dlrs of convertible debt due October 4, 2002 carrying an indicated coupon of six to 6-3/8 pct and priced at par, Salomon Brothers International said as lead manager. Enserch's stock closed at 22-1/2 last night on the New York Stock Exchange. The conversion premium is indicated to be 20 to 23 pct. The securities are non-callable for three years. There is a 1-1/2 pct selling concession and two pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
MIDDLE EAST CURRENCY MARKET SEES KEY CHANGES

Middle East currency dealers meet in Abu Dhabi this weekend at a time of fundamental change in their business, which has seen a growing volume of trade shift from the Arab world to London. The 14th congress of the Inter-Arab Cambiste Association also comes at a time when the prospect of a unified Gulf currency system is more real that at any time this decade. Foreign exchange traders and bank treasurers said these issues, and the slide of the Lebanese pound, can be expected to be major talking points. About 250 traders and treasurers from some 115 banks -- including some in London and other major non-Arab financial centres -- are expected to attend the conference which begins on on Saturday. Bankers said it is hard to avoid the impression that a growing proportion of transactions in the Saudi riyal market, by far the largest in the region, is being carried out in London. The market had been dominated by Saudi Arabia's 11 banks, foreign exchange houses in the Kingdom and offshore banks in Bahrain. But bankers said more and more Saudi and Bahrain-based banks are boosting their treasury operations in London. As recession hit the Middle East and the need for trade finance in the region declined, many offshore banks in Bahrain ran down their currency operations. None of the four major U.K. Clearing banks now has a dealing room on the island. The two major Bahrain-based international banks, <Arab Banking Corp> and <Gulf International Bank BSC> have increased their presence in London and Saudi banks are busy upgrading representative offices to branch status to allow dealing. One economist said: "It is cheaper to run a riyal book in London than staff an expensive offshore operation in Bahrain... There is now the nucleus of a two-way market in London." Jeddah-based <Riyad Bank> set up as a licensed deposit taker in London in 1984, while its main rival in Saudi Arabia, <National Commercial Bank> (NCB) won a licence in November 1986. The major market maker has traditionally been London-based consortium bank <Saudi International Bank> but the kingdom joint-venture <Saudi American Bank> (SAMBA) also upgraded its London operation to deposit taker status in mid-February. One senior currency trader in Riyadh said: "Inevitably the volume of business in London has gained pace with the two new licences for NCB and SAMBA, but there is no question that most of the liquidity still rests in Saudi Arabia." Currency traders said the shift to London in the Saudi riyal market is difficult to quantify. Bahrain Monetary Agency figures show regional currency deposits held by offshore banks, most in Saudi riyals, dropped to the equivalent of 12.2 billion dlrs at end-September 1986 from 13.4 billion at end-1985 and a 1983 peak of 15.0 billion. The shift has prompted changes in dealing habits. Riyal trading in the Gulf on Saturdays and Sundays has become very quiet with London closed while some Saudi and Bahrain banks now staff offices on Friday, the Gulf weekend. Traders also expect <Arab National Bank> to step up London operations. Traders say it is difficult to foresee the riyal market moving completely out of the region, partly because of local demand and partly because of what is seen as the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency's (SAMA) desire to moderate internationalisation of the riyal and protect it from undue speculation. There have been far fewer signs of the Kuwaiti dinar market shifting from its natural base of Kuwait and trading in Bahrain and London is still limited. But for the first time since the formation of the six nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) in 1981 there are signs that a much mooted currency union could come into force soon. Currency traders said it remains unclear what form a final currency union would take for the six states -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. But plans to link the six currencies in a European Monetary System style with a common peg have been discussed at high level and could be a topic on the GCC's annual summit expected to be held in Saudi Arabia late in the year. One dealer said: "A lot of exposure is being given to discussions and plans appear to be quite advanced. But in the end a political decision has to be taken to give the go-ahead." One open question is that of a common peg for currencies. The idea of linking the six currencies has been debated since the start of the GCC. The Kuwaiti dinar is currently linked to a basket of currencies while the other five currencies are either officially or in practice linked to the U.S. Dollar. Some traders said a currency union could mean speculation against the Saudi riyal rubbing off on other Gulf currencies, but plans call for a permitted divergence in the system of 7-1/4 pct, large enough to avoid sudden strains. Another topic for debate is expected to be the continued slide of the Lebanese pound against the dollar and the undermining of the effective capital base of Lebanese banks. REUTER 
CITIBANK LAUNCHES CURRENCY WARRANTS

Citibank NA is issuing up to 50,000 currency warrants which give the holder a call right on U.S. Dollars from marks or yen, Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd said as sole manager. Each warrant, priced at 47.50 dlrs, gives the holder the right to purchase a nominal sum of 500 dlrs for either 182.50 marks or 149.50 yen between March 31, 1987 and March 31, 1989. The warrants will be listed in Luxembourg and pay date is March 31. Exercise, requiring one day's notice, must be for a minimum of 100 warrants through one currency only. REUTER 
EGYPT BUYS 46,000 TONNES OF SUNFLOWERSEED OIL

Egypt purchased 46,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil at its import tender yesterday, all for May arrival, traders said. The business comprised 41,000 tonnes of crude sunflowerseed oil in bulk at prices ranging from 344.25 to 348 dlrs and 5,000 tonnes of refined oil in drums at from 517.50 to 522.50 dlrs per tonne, cost and freight Alexandria, delivered quality terms. REUTER 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS TO RESUME THIS AFTERNOON

Talks between Cargill U.K. Ltd's management and unions, aimed at ending the prolonged strike at its Seaforth oilseed processing plant, will resume this afternoon, a company spokesman said. Yesterday's session failed to reach a compromise but some progress was made, he said. REUTER 
NORWAY ISSUES 60 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Norway is issuing a 60 billion yen eurobond due April 22, 1992 paying 4-1/4 pct and priced at 101-5/8 pct, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The non-callable issue will be available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in London. The fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
SAAB-SCANIA LAUNCHES 100 MLN DLR EURO-CP PROGRAM

Saab-Scania AB is establishing a 100 mln dlr euro-commercial paper issuance program, Enskilda Securities said as arranger. Dealers will be Enskilda and Bankers Trust International Ltd. Paper will be issued in discounted note form only and will have maturities between seven and 365 days. Denominations will be 500,000 and one mln dlrs. Enskilda Securities said Saab-Scania hopes to activate the program soon. REUTER 
BRITISH COMPOUND FEED PRODUCTION DETAILED

Feed compounds, balancers and concentrates produced in Britain in the five weeks ended January 31 totalled 973,400 tonnes, against 966,200 tonnes produced in the same 1986 period, Ministry of Agriculture figures show. However, cattle/calf feed output, the largest single component, was 7.2 pct down at 435,900 tonnes against 469,900 tonnes. Pig feed was 170,800 tonnes versus 171,600, and poultry feed 287,600 compared with 256,600. Other smaller components included in the total all showed increases. REUTER 
UNCERTAINTY SURROUNDS EC SUGAR TENDER RESULT-TRADE

Considerable uncertainty surrounds the outcome of today's EC white sugar tender, traders here said, noting it remains overshadowed by European operator threats to move over 800,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention. They said that due to the dispute between the Commission and producers over the issue, it is not clear whether the Commission will authorise any exports at all or grant licences on a large tonnage. The subsidy is seen being set above 45.00 Ecus per 100 kilos, although traders are reluctant to predict a precise level after prices fell yesterday. Earlier, traders in Paris said they expected the Commission to award licences for around 50,000 tonnes of white sugar with a maximum export rebate of 45.75 to 46.0 Ecus. Last week, the Commission granted licences to end August on 60,500 tonnes of whites at a maximum rebate of 44.819. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO SHOW SURPLUS

The Bank of England said it had revised its forecast of the liquidity position in the money market today to a surplus of 150 mln stg after it estimated a flat position earlier this morning. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT OPERATE IN MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it had not operated in the money market during the morning session. Earlier, the Bank revised its forecast of the liquidity position in the system today to a surplus of 150 mln stg from its original estimate of a flat position. REUTER 
CITIBANK LAUNCHES CURRENCY WARRANTS

Citibank NA is issuing up to 50,000 currency warrants that give the holder a call right on U.S. Dollars from marks or yen, Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd said as sole manager. Each warrant, priced at 47.50 dlrs, gives the holder the right to purchase a nominal sum of 500 dlrs for either 182.50 marks or 149.50 yen between March 31, 1987 and March 31, 1989. The warrants will be listed in Luxembourg and pay date is March 31. Exercise, requiring one day's notice, must be for a minimum of 100 warrants through one currency only. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SURPLUS REVISED TO 250 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it revised up its forecast of today's surplus in the money markets to 250 mln stg from its earlier estimate of a 150 mln. The central bank has not operated in the market today. REUTER 
UK EQUITIES SEEN DUE FOR DOWNWARD CORRECTION

The chances of U.K. Stocks continuing recent rises as budget euphoria gives way to the uncertainties of a probable election are small, and market analysts say there will probably be a downwards correction in the next few weeks. The U.K. Market has managed a dizzy rise since the New Year, with the FT-SE index of 100 leading shares lifting 22.5 pct since January 2 to current levels around 2050. "Over the next month or two the odds are that the index will drop back to around 1,900," said John Goldschmidt, head of equities research at Chase Manhattan Securities. "A five to 10 pct drop is likely. There was a six pct fall before the 1983 election when the Conservatives were further ahead in the polls and the market was on a multiple of only 14 instead of 18 now," noted Nick Knight of brokers James Capel. "The old adage is "sell in May and go away'. That's likely to apply this year but will probably start in April," he added. But few analysts believed a correction would spell the end of the bull run that has now lasted for some six years. "As long as corporate profits and earnings keep on growing then the pressure for continued rises will be there. There seems little prospect of the growth stopping in 1987/1988," one said. Much of the recent enthusiasm has stemmed from the belief, already virtually discounted, that the ruling Conservatives will call an election in the next few months - probably June - and sweep home to a third term in office. Even if this does happen, however, pre-election nerves are likely to produce the traditional effect of damping down the market until the result is clear. "It's likely there will be one or two hiccups of confidence about the Tories winning an overall majority," Goldschmidt said. "It would be quite out of character for the market to continue to sail serenely upwards right through the election and beyond," added brokers Phillips and Drew in a recent report. The belief that the government itself is worried about the impact of the Alliance party disrupting the usual two-corner fight of Conservative and Labour with unpredictable results, is not likely to give reassurance, one analyst noted. Other factors also indicate that the market is vulnerable to a downwards correction. U.K. Stocks had ridden up partly on the back of record rises in New York and Japan and a pause in either suggests that London would inevitably follow suit. There would also be little new encouragement provided by general economic factors as much of the recent optimistic news, including this month's half point cut in base rates to 10 pct, is already built into prices. "The economy is looking okay, but it can't support 20 pct increases every three months indefinitely," one said. Also, market liquidity, a powerful driving force behind the recent rises, shows signs of drying up under the pressure of the government's privatisation campaign. The next few months will see cash calls for second tranche payments on British Gas Plc <BRGS.L> and British Airways Plc <BAB.L> as well as the proposed sale of <Rolls Royce Plc> and the as-yet untimetabled sale of the government's 31.7 pct stake in British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L>. On top of that, there will be calls from the gilt market even though last week's budget limited the projected 1987/88 borrowing requirement to four billion stg. "We are looking for a squeeze on cash flow, and that's not including rights issues which have been low so far this year and may pick up in the second quarter," Knight said. Reuter 
ENSERCH ISSUES 100 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Enserch Inc is issuing 100 mln dlrs of convertible debt due October 4, 2002 carrying an indicated coupon of six to 6-3/8 pct and priced at par, Salomon Brothers International said as lead manager. Enserch's stock closed at 22-1/2 last night on the New York Stock Exchange. The conversion premium is indicated to be 20 to 23 pct. The securities are non-callable for three years. There is a 1-1/2 pct selling concession and two pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
THATCHER DEFENDS UK OIL POLICY IN SAUDI INTERVIEW

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher denied in an interview published in Saudi Arabia today that her government's oil policy contributed to weakness in world oil prices. She said the government was determined not to intervene to influence production decisions by oil companies operating in the North Sea. "We believe these must be a matter for the commercial judgment of the oil companies," she told the Arabic language daily al-Sharq al-Awsat in an interview coinciding with a visit to London by King Fahd of Saudi Arabia. Thatcher said this policy had not contributed to the fall in oil prices as North Sea production was now about the same as in 1984 when prices were close to 30 dlrs a barrel. British production was on a plateau and was unlikely to increase in the future, she said. "We naturally share the concern of Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members about the harmful effects of oil market volatility for both producer and consumer countries," Thatcher said. "On our part, we are careful to avoid any actions which might add to such volatility." REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND DRAINS MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY

The Bank of England said it drained liquidity from the money market when it sold 167 mln stg of treasury bills due March 27 at rates between 9-9/16 and 10 pct. Earlier, the bank estimated a surplus of around 250 mln stg in the system today. REUTER 
U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES

A total 59,000 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 45.678 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at today's European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said. Out of this, traders in West Germany received 34,750 tonnes, in the U.K. 13,000, in Denmark 7,250 and in France 4,000 tonnes, it added. Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Aug to be more than 45.00 Ecus per 100 kilos but Paris traders were more precise by forecasting a rebate level of 45.75 to 46.0 Ecus. London traders were also reluctant earlier to predict the likely tonnage to be authorised for export in view of the on-going dispute between the Commission and European producers over the threatened action by the producers to move over 800,000 tonnes to intervention. Last week saw 60,500 tonnes whites athuorised for export at a maximum rebate of 44.819 Ecus per 100 kilos. REUTER 
KEIHIN ELECTRIC EXPRESS ISSUES 150 MLN DLR BOND

Keihin Electric Express Railway Co Ltd is issuing a 150 mln dlr eurobond with equity warrants due April 22, 1992 with an indicated coupon of 2-3/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. The non-callable bonds are guaranteed by Fuji Bank Ltd. Pricing will take place on April 1 and the exercise period is between May 18, 1987 and April 15, 1992. The indicated premium is 2-1/2 pct. Total fees of 2-1/4 pct comprise 1-1/2 pct for selling and 3/4 pct for management and underwriting. The bonds will be issued in 5,000 dlr denominations and listed in Luxembourg. REUTER 
BRISTOL AND WEST BUILDING SOCIETY ISSUES CDS

The Bristol and West Building Society is issuing a 250 mln dlr multi-currency certificate of deposit facility, said Kleinwort, Benson Ltd, one of the appointed dealers. The other dealers will be Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd and Morgan Guaranty Ltd. The maturities range from 28 to 364 days and denominations will be 500,000 and one mln dlrs. REUTER 
WOOLWICH BUILDING SOCIETY ISSUING 50 MLN STG BOND

The Woolwich and Equitable Building Society is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due April 27, 1992 paying 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-5/8 pct, lead manager Chase Investment Bank Ltd said. The non-callable issue is available in denominations of 5,000 stg and will be listed in London. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
CHRYSLER FINANCE ISSUING STERLING EUROBOND

Chrysler Financial Corp is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due April 30, 1992 paying 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/8 pct, lead manager Union Bank Of Switzerland Securities said. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
EC COMMISSION DETAILS SUGAR TENDER

The European Community Commission confirmed it granted export licences for 59,000 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum export rebate of 45.678 European Currency Units (ECUs) per 100 kilos. Out of this, traders in West Germany received 34,750 tonnes, in the U.K. 13,000, in Denmark 7,250 tonnes and in France 4,000 tonnes. REUTER 
ROLLS-ROYCE SIGNS NEW ENGINE DEAL WITH BOEING

<Rolls-Royce Ltd> said it signed an agreement with the Boeing Company <BA.N> to install its RB 211-524 D4D engine on the B767 family of aircraft. The engine, currently under development, will be ready for service by early 1990, the company said in a statement. Boeing 747s are also powered with the engine, and its use in B767 craft too could bring significant operating benefits, Rolls-Royce said. Reuter 
NEC CORP HAS 150 MLN DLR EURO-CP PROGRAM

NEC Corp is establishing a 150 mln dlr euro-commercial paper program with a sterling option, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said as arranger. Paper will be issued by NEC Industries Netherlands BV under the guarantee of NEC Corp. Dealers will be Morgan Guaranty, Chase Investment Bank Ltd, Shearson Lehman Brothers International and Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd. Issuing and paying agent will be Chase Manhattan Bank NA, London. REUTER 
INDIA REPORTED BUYING TWO WHITE SUGAR CARGOES

India is reported to have bought two white sugar cargoes for April/May shipment at its tender today near 227 dlrs a tonne cost and freight and could be seeking a third cargo, traders said. A British operator is believed to have sold one of the cargoes, while an Austrian concern is thought to have featured in the second cargo sale, they said. Reuter 
THAI SUGAR PRODUCTION CONTINUES HIGH IN FEB

Thai sugar production continued at a high level in February, latest figures received by the International Sugar Organization (ISO) show. The figures show stocks at end-February of 2.49 mln tonnes raw value against 2.33 mln a year earlier. Analysts said this was a new peak for the date. Production in February was 961,000 tonnes against 888,000 in February 1986 and took the Nov/Feb total for the current crop to 2.25 mln tonnes. Production normally tails off sharply after March, but in recent years production from March to the end of the crop has been over 500,000 tonnes, analysts said. Thailand's exports in February were 32,800 tonnes and consumption 57,800. Last month the Thai Agriculture Ministry said 1986/87 production was expected to fall to 2.3 mln tonnes from 2.48 mln in 1985/86. Reuter 
SWEDISH EXPORT CREDIT ISSUES NEW ZEALAND DLR BOND

Swedish Export Credit is issuing 75 mln New Zealand dlr eurobonds due April 28, 1989, paying 19 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston said. The bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 7/8 pct selling concession and 3/8 pct management and underwriting. REUTER 
CATERPILLAR <CAT> WORKERS TOLD TO END SIT-IN

The U.S. Caterpillar Tractor Co was granted a court injunction ordering some 300 workers to end their 10-week occupation of the firm's factory, court sources said. The workers, staging a sit-in to protest Caterpillar's decision to close the plant with the loss of 1,221 jobs, are due to decide on their next step at a mass meeting tonight. Yesterday a spokesman for the workers said they would comply with the law if forced out. Caterpillar wants to dismiss the workforce and close the plant in May. Reuter 
MOUNTLEIGH GROUP SEEKS 100 MLN STG FACILITY

<Mountleigh Group Plc>, a U.K. Property company, is seeking a 100 mln stg multicurrency credit facility, Union Bank of Switzerland (London branch) said. The revolving, evergreen facility will be completely underwritten and the borrower will be able to issue cash advances, sterling bankers acceptances and sterling commercial paper through a tender panel. There will be a cap of 50 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor)on any drawings for advances and a 50 basis points commission on acceptances. There will be a facility fee of 3/16 pct. Banks are being invited to join at 20 to 25 mln stg for 12-1/2 basis points, at 10 to 15 mln stg for 10 basis points and at five to 7.5 mln stg for 7.5 basis points. The facility, which can only be cancelled after underwriters provide 61 months notice to the borrower, will refinance some of Mountleigh's existing debt. Reuter 
COCOA TALKS SLOW AT CRUCIAL STAGE - DELEGATES

International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) talks on buffer stock rules have slowed during a crucial phase of negotiations, delegates said, but they remained confident about prospects for reaching agreement by Friday. Cocoa producers, European Community (EC) consumers and all consumers separately reviewed technical details of a buffer stock rules package distributed yesterday. The buffer stock working group of consumers and producers was set to meet later today to debate the proposal jointly for the first time, they said. Delegates said major sticking points were likely to be the amount of non-member cocoa allowed to be bought for the buffer stock, and the fixed price differentials at which different origin cocoas will be offered to the buffer stock manager. Producers would prefer that non-member cocoa not be included in the buffer stock because, if it is, countries such as Malaysia benefit from the cocoa agreement without joining it, the delegates said. Reuter 
EURATOM ECU BOND MARKS ROME TREATY ANNIVERSARY

Euratom is issuing a 145 mln ECU eurobond due April 24, 1997, paying 7-3/8 pct and priced at 101-1/8 pct, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. The bond will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 ECU and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1-3/8 selling concession and 5/8 pct management and underwriting combined. A Paribas official said Euratom had timed the issue to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. Reuter 
UK POLL SHOWS SURGE FOR CENTRIST ALLIANCE PARTIES

A British voter opinion poll in tomorrow's Today newspaper shows a surge in support for the centrist Alliance grouping and a fall for both the ruling Conservatives and the Labour opposition party. The Marplan poll gives the Conservatives 36 pct, the Liberal/Social Democratic Alliance 31 pct, and Labour 31 pct as well. A Marplan survey last month gave the Tories 38 pct, the Alliance 21 pct, and Labour 37 pct. The latest poll would, if translated into an election result, produce a hung parliament, analysts said. That should dampen speculation of an early June election, they added. Reuter 
LIBERIAN ORE CARRIER IN COLLISION IN RIVER ELBE

The Liberian motor bulk carrier, Trave Ore, 106,490 dwt, loaded with ore, and the 2,852 dwt West German motor vessel Christa, collided late last night on the River Elbe near buoy 129, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said. The Trave Ore proceeded by its own means to Hamburg. The Christa was taken in tow with a damaged bow. The Liberian vessel was concluding a trip from Seven Islands to Hamburg. Reuter 






COCOA COUNCIL CHAIRMAN SEEKS BUFFER COMPROMISE

International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, Council chairman, Denis Bra Kanon, said he will attempt to reach a compromise on buffer stock rules for the International Cocoa Agreement. Bra Kanon called for bilateral consultations among producers and consumers Thursday morning to resolve outstanding differences on how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock can purchase and differentials to be fixed for different origin cocoa, consumer delegates told reporters. Bra Kanon is expected to meet with about eight delegations individually in attempt to iron out remaining problems. Producers and consumers indicated support "in principle" for the draft buffer stock rules package formulated over the past week by a small working group, consumer delegates said. Despite remaining differences delegates remained confident a buffer stock accord would be agreed to by Friday when the council session ends, but certain technical points need further clarification, the delegates said. Certain consumers are concerned that differentials included in the draft buffer stock package are out of line with market realities, consumer delegates said. Unless these are modified there are fears it would promote purchases of quality cocoas, such as Ghana origin, which are normally required by manufacturers, they said. Restrictions on buffer stock purchases of non-member cocoa might lead to a supply overhang in Malaysian cocoa, which would depress prices, they added. Reuter 
NORDIC INVESTMENT BANK HAS ZERO COUPON BOND

The Nordic Investment Bank is issuing a zero coupon 100 mln Australian dlr bond due April 24, 1992 priced at 53-1/2 pct for an effective yield at launch of 13.33 pct, lead manager Chemical Bank International Ltd said. The bond will be available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 3/4 pct selling concession and 1/2 pct for management and underwriting. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET LIQUIDITY POSITION EXPECTED FLAT

The Bank of England said it has forecast a flat position in the money market today. Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up of treasury bills will drain 545 mln stg and a rise in note circulation 35 mln stg but the outflow will be offset by 490 mln stg exchequer transactions and bankers balances above target 70 mln. REUTER 
U.K. OILMEAL/VEG OIL PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986

The U.K. Produced 820,400 tonnes of oilcake and meal and 431,000 tonnes of crude vegetable oil in calendar 1986, Ministry of Agriculture figures show. They compare with 785,800 tonnes of oilcake and meal and 407,400 tonnes of crude vegetable oil produced in 1985. Total oilseeds crushed rose to 1.27 mln tonnes from 1.21 mln in 1985. REUTER 
U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY

Britain's visible trade deficit narrowed to a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in February from 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Department said. The current account balance of payments in February showed a seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stg compared with a surplus of 73 mln in January. Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mln surplus, the same as in January. Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January. Trade Department officials said the improvement in Britain's current account contrasted with most private forecasts and they attributed much of the strength to imports rising less quickly in February than might otherwise have been expected. The Department said exceptionally cold weather in January reduced exports that month and that there had been an element of catching up in the February figures. The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide to underlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from 114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5. The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751 mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425 mln from 352 mln. The Department said the upward trend in non-oil export volume continues and the underlying level of non-oil import volume seems to have stablised. The Departnment said exports to the U.S. May be benefiting from fluctuations in the mark and yen exchange rates. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET FORECAST REVISED TO DEFICIT

The Bank of England said it revised its estimate of today's money market shortfall to around 350 mln stg from a flat position. REUTER 
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT

The release of U.K. February trade data showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376 mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said. Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750 mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply narrower than January's 527 mln deficit. "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase Manhattan Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said. Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from yesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level. The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade pattern would undermine international support for sterling, which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards. But sentiment now looks to have turned about again. There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current account deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, Wroblewski said. Seasonally adjusted figures showed imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion. However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and Drew said the faster rise in exports than imports would prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the Chancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expenditure on imported goods. However, Warburg Securities economist Ian Harwood said his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg. He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the Confederation of British Industry. The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if January's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas goods and import-intensive stock building among manufacturers, Harwood said. U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2 point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries about the figures evaporated. Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling to a steady 1.6050 about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher than the European low of 1.5960. However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news. Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the Conservative government's support was slipping. LONDON, March 26 - The Bank of England said it provided 15 mln stg in assistance to the money market this morning, buying bank bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. Earlier the Bank revised its money market liquidity forecast from a flat position to a deficit of around 350 mln stg. REUTER 
GUINNESS PEAT HAS CASH ADVANCE FACILITY

Guinness Peat Group Plc <GNSP.L> has arranged to receive a 125 mln dlr five year cash advance facility, said Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd and Guinness Mahon and Co Ltd as joint arrangers. The two firms said the terms of the facility will be reviewed after the third year with a view to considering extension by a further two years. The facility will include a tender panel to bid for multi-currency cash advances at a maximum rate of 0.1875 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate. The facility will incorporate an underwriting fee of 0.10 pct in addition to a fee of 0.05 to 0.10 pct depending on the participation amount. In addition, Barclays and Guinness Mahon have been named joint dealers for a complementary 100 mln dlr euro-commercial paper program. Funds will be used to refinance the cost of the recent Forstmann-Leff Associates acquisition as well as for general corporate purposes. REUTER 
SUMITOMO BANK HAS 500 MLN STG CD PROGRAM

Sumitomo Bank Ltd said it established a 500 mln stg certificate of deposit (CD) issuance program, arranged by Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd. Dealers will be Morgan Grenfell, Lloyds Merchant Bank Ltd, Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd, Salomon Brothers International Ltd, Sumitomo Finance International and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. Maturities will be between seven days and five years and paper will be issued in denominations of 250,000, 500,000 and one mln stg. REUTER 
SANDOZ HAS 50 MLN DLR EURO-CP PROGRAM

Sandoz Corp, a U.S. Subsidiary of Sandoz AG, is establishing a 50 mln dlr euro-commercial paper (CP) program, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said as one of the dealers. The other dealer is Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd and Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York is issuing and paying agent. Paper will have maturities between seven and 183 days and will be issued in global and definitive form. REUTER 
CAMBRIAN AND GENERAL NOTES RELISTED IN LONDON

<Cambrian and General Securities Plc> said the London Stock Exchange has restored the listing of its 50 mln dlrs of secured floating rate notes dated 1992 at the company's request. The notes are fully secured and therefore have a prior claim over Cambrian's assets in the event of other claims arising from litigation, it added. Dealings in Cambrian's securities have been suspended since late 1986 following the disclosure of insider trading activities by former chairman Ivan Boesky. Cambrian officials were not immediately available for further comment on today's statement. REUTER 
U.K. VISIBLE TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS IN FEBRUARY

Britain's visible trade deficit narrowed to a seasonally adjusted provisional 224 mln stg in February from 527 mln in January, The Trade and Industry Department said. The current account balance of payments in February showed a seasonally adjusted provisional surplus of 376 mln stg compared with a surplus of 73 mln in January. Invisibles in February were put provisionally at a 600 mln surplus, the same as in January. Seasonally adjusted, imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion last month from 6.20 billion in January. Trade Department officials said the improvement in Britain's current account contrasted with most private forecasts and they attributed much of the strength to imports rising less quickly in February than might otherwise have been expected. The Department said exceptionally cold weather in January reduced exports that month and that there had been an element of catching up in the February figures. The seasonally adjusted volume index, base 1980, a guide to underlying non-oil trade, showed exports rising to 131.0 from 114.6 in January and imports rising to 142.2 from 136.5. The value of British oil exports in February rose to 751 mln stg from 723 mln in Jnauary while oil imports rose to 425 mln from 352 mln. Reuter 
U.K. TRADE FIGURES BUOY HOPES OF INTEREST RATE CUT

The release of U.K. February trade data showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376 mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said. Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750 mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply narrower than January's 527 mln deficit. "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase Manhattan Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said. Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from yesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level. The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade pattern would undermine international support for sterling, which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K. Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards. But sentiment now looks to have turned about again. There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current account deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski. Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose in February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January. Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion. However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and Drew said that the faster rise in exports than imports would prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the Chancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expediture on imported goods. However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, said his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg. He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the Confederation of British Industry. The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if January's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas goods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres, Harwood said. U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2 point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries about the figures evaporated. Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling to a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher than the European low of 1.5960. However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news. Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the Conservative government's support was slipping. The Marplan poll, published in "Today," showed Conservative support had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while the Alliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31 pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party, whose own support fell from 38 pct. The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greeted enthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have left the voters indifferent, political observers said. Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warn that today's improved sentiment could be dented if support for Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again. This upsetting of the markets' political perceptions, which are all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcoming general election, made them more sensitive to the trade data, Harwood said. "The news did come as a very, very substantial relief," he said. However, on the interest rate front, economists caution that Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable by encouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson had already got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates in response to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons for lower rates have been curtailed. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 226 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it operated in the money market this afternoon, buying 226 mln stg in bills. In band one, the central bank bought 37 mln stg treasury bills and 72 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct together with 117 mln stg band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct. This brings total money market help so far today to 241 mln stg and compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 350 mln stg shortfall. REUTER 
CREDIT LYONNAIS UNIT HAS AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR BOND

Credit Lyonnais Australia is issuing a 40 mln Australian dlr eurobond paying 14-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/8 pct, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The bond is due April 24, 1990 and is guaranteed by Credit Lyonnais. It will be available in denominations of 1,000 dlrs and will listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise one pct selling concession with 1/2 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
WALT DISNEY ISSUES 60 MLN AUS DLR EUROBOND

Walt Disney Co Ltd is issuing a 60 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 7, 1990 with a 14-1/2 pct coupon and priced at 101-3/8 pct, Warburg Securities said as lead manager. The non-callable bonds will be issued in denominations of 1,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Gross fees of 1-1/2 pct comprise one pct for selling and 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 25 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it provided about 25 mln stg in late help to the money market, bringing the total assistance today to 266 mln stg. This compares with the bank's revised estimate of a 350 mln stg money market shortfall. REUTER 
ALUMINIUM SCRAP RECOVERY AND USAGE TO RISE

Aluminium scrap recovery and usage and output of secondary metal will continue to rise, said Shearson Lehman Brothers in a review of the secondary aluminium market which details cost and demand factors. Although primary smelting costs have declined generally in recent years, the still substantial energy cost savings offered by secondary smelters will continue to make re-melted material increasingly attractive. It takes around 15,000 kilowatt hours (kwh) of electricity to produce one tonne of primary aluminium compared with around 550 kwh for one tonne of secondary metal, Shearson said. On the demand side, developments in automobiles and packaging bode well for secondary aluminium consumption. Automobile production, although expected to fall this year, is still on an upward trend and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future and, in addition, use of aluminium castings is gaining wider acceptance in the automobile industry, particularly in the U.S. In packaging, Shearson does not expect aluminium to dominate the beverage can market in any of the other major economies to the extent it does in the U.S., But says there is evidence recycling is on the increase in other countries. In addition to the cost savings involved, technology advances now enable alloys of higher purity to be produced by the secondary aluminium industry, Shearson said. There is not likely to be a problem of availability as the U.S. Has a huge scrap reservoir and this is also true of several European countries, albeit on a smaller scale. Reuter 
FRENCH STOCK BILL TO BE PRESENTED BEFORE JUNE

The French government will present to parliament a major bill within two months to overhaul the Paris stock market, economics and finance minister Edouard Balladur said. Balladur told an Economist conference that on the product side, a series of new contracts, including share options and forward contracts in European Currency Units (ECUs), would be introduced shortly for trading on the Paris bourse. The scope of the new bill, however, was to transform the organisation of equity trading, allowing participants both to perform a banking role and to trade in equities, he said. Reuter 
REUTERS TO CARRY SEAQ TWO-WAY U.K. SHARE QUOTES

Reuters Holdings Plc <RTRS.L> said it had reached agreement with the London-based International Stock Exchange on the distribution of two-way British domestic share quotations from the Stock Exchange Automated Quotation System (SEAQ) via the Reuter worldwide information network. The company said in a statement the agreement covered SEAQ Level-2, which provides buy and sell price quotations from 31 individual market makers in domestic U.K. Equities. Reuters said it will begin carrying the quotes for all 101 Alpha stocks, leading U.K. Shares, within the next few weeks. The SEAQ investor service, which displays indications of market prices for U.K. Shares without identifying market makers, has been available on the Reuter network since the "Big Bang" deregulation of the London stock market last October. The SEAQ level-2 service will be available on one-month trial to subscribers to the Reuter International Equities Service and to the Reuter U.K. Investment Service, prior to the imposition of Stock Exchange fees, the company said. REUTER 
LIBYA REPORTEDLY BOUGHT WHITE SUGAR

Libya is reported to have recently bought two cargoes of white sugar from operators at around 229/230 dlrs a tonne cost and freight, traders said. The shipment period required was not specified. Reuter 
COCOA COUNCIL HEAD TO PRESENT BUFFER COMPROMISE

International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon will present a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules to producer and consumer delegates either later today or tomorrow morning, delegates said. Bra Kanon held private bilateral consultations with major producers and consumers this morning to resolve outstanding differences, mostly on the issues of how much non-member cocoa the buffer stock can purchase and price differentials for different varieties. Delegates were fairly confident the differences could be worked out in time to reach agreement tomorrow. Some consuming member nations, including Britain and Belgium, favour the buffer stock buying more than 10 pct non-member cocoa, delegates have said. The consumers argue that buying cheaper, lower quality non-member cocoas, particularly Malaysian, will most effectively support prices because that low quality cocoa is currently pressuring the market. Producers, meanwhile, say non-member cocoa should make up at most a very small percentage of the buffer. They say Malaysia should not be able to benefit from the ICCO unless it is a member, and if the buffer stock bought Malaysian cocoa Malaysia would have no incentive to join, delegates said. As to differentials, Ghana apparently wanted a higher differential for its cocoa than is outlined in the most recent proposal, so it would have a better chance of having its cocoa bought for the buffer stock, producer delegates said. Some consumers wanted differentials to be adjusted in a way that would not promote buffer stock purchases of the more expensive cocoas, such as Ghanaian and Brazilian, they said. Other technical points need to be sorted out, including limits on how much cocoa the buffer stock manager can buy in nearby, intermediate and forward positions and the consequent effect on prices in the various deliveries, delegates said. Reuter 
LLOYD'S APPOINTS NEW OUTSIDE COUNCIL MEMBERS

Four new outsiders were appointed to the policy-making Council of the Lloyd's of London insurance market, shifting the voting balance on the Council away from Lloyd's professionals, Lloyd's said. It said in a statement the appointments of the new members, none of them previously involved in the insurance market, were made to comply with the core recommendation in the Neill report into regulation at Lloyd's, which was published on January 22. The recommendation, one of 70 to improve investor protection in the Lloyd's market, was to reduce the number of elected working members, Lloyd's professionals, from 16 to 12. Simultaneously, the number of outsiders would be increased by four while the number of external Council members, usually Lloyd's investors without an active role in the market, would remain unchanged at eight. Lloyd's said the four newly-appointed Council members were barrister Elizabeth Mary Freeman, Sir Maurice Hodgson, non-executive chairman of British Home Stores Plc, Lloyd's Bank Plc chairman Sir Jeremy Morse, and Brian Pomeroy, an accountant who sat on the three-member Neill enquiry panel. They replace the four Lloyd's professionals who resigned on April 4 after Lloyd's agreed to implement the recommendation. REUTER 
ROWNTREE SEEKS 200 MLN STG FACILITY, CP PROGRAM

Rowntree Mackintosh Plc is seeking a 200 mln stg, five year multiple option facility, of which 150 mln stg will be committed, and a 200 mln stg commercial paper program, County Natwest Capital Markets Ltd said as arranger. The facility includes options for sterling acceptances, multi-currency advances, sterling and dollar notes via tender panels and there is also a sterling swingline. The committed portion carries a facility fee of five basis points and a margin of ten. A 2-1/2 basis point utilisation fee is payable on drawings of more than half the committed portion. The 200 mln stg commercial paper program will include a dollar option, County Natwest said. A County Natwest official said the facility, launched earlier this week, seemed to be progressing well in syndication. REUTER 
BRITISH, FRENCH MINISTERS DISCUSS PUBLIC SPENDING

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur discussed the need to control public spending in talks here today with British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, a Treasury spokesman said. The spokesman said the ministers reviewed their economies, and public spending, domestic and European Community-wide. He declined to comment on whether the subject of concerted action to shore up the dollar had arisen. The U.S. Currency dipped sharply earlier this week after a month of relative stability after an agreement by six major industrialised nations in Paris on February 22 to stabilise their currencies. REUTER 
PARIS G-6 MEET SET NO TARGETS - LEIGH-PEMBERTON

Bank of England Governor Robin Leigh-Pemberton said the Paris pact agreed between six leading industrialised nations set no nominal exchange rate targets. Leigh-Pemberton said in oral evidence to a select committee that "we did not swap numbers - we reached an understanding" on how to cooperate towards stabilizing currencies at around their current levels. He said the accord had brought Britain into a form of joint currency float - but one which let it still purse an independent monetary policy. "I would concede that, since the Louvre Accord, we are acting as if we are in something," Leigh-Pemberton said. "The Louvre and Plaza accords show there is a very effective role for the (Group of) seven central banks to operate together" towards stabilising exchange rates," Leigh-Pemberton said. He did not mention this week's intervention by central banks to support the dollar, after markets decided to test the accord. Leigh-Pemberton said that "the effectiveness of this (cooperation) is actually larger than many of us had thought in the pre-Plaza days" before September 1985. He did not indicate what exchange rate levels were broadly sought by the six nations, and noted that "we are more effective in our agreement if we can leave the markets guessing." He did not indicate what exchange rate levels were broadly sought by the six nations, and noted that "we are more effective in our agreement if we can leave the markets guessing." Leigh-Pemberton said that, in principle, the Bank of England favoured full EMS membership for sterling, provided such a move did not endanger U.K. Anti-inflation monetary policy. Asked whether he wanted to see U.K. Interest rates lower, he said "the two half point cuts (this month in banks' base lending rates) have been appropriate up until now." Leigh-Pemberton said he preferred a "cautious step-by-step approach" to reducing short term interest rates, not least because "we have a potential problem with inflation." Underlying U.K. Inflation was currently around 4.0 pct, "one of the highest" among industrialised nations, he added. Leigh-Pemberton said the Bank of England had not wanted base rates to fall before the unveiling of the 1987/88 budget on March 17, but he said pressure from financial markets for such a move had proved irresistible. Base rates are now at 10 pct. Regarding sterling's relationship with oil, Leigh-Pemberton said that the pound could be seen being undervalued overall. He said the current oil price of some 18 dlrs a barrel might suggest a level of 74 on the Bank of England's sterling index, when compared with the index's level before oil prices dropped from around the 30 dlr level. The index, base 1975, closed here today at 72.1, unchanged from the previous close. Reuter 
COCOA CHAIRMAN WORKS TOWARDS BUFFER COMPROMISE

International Cocoa Organization's, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon continued work towards a compromise plan on how the ICCO buffer stock should buy cocoa, consumer delegates said. Consumer delegates said Bra Kanon had not formally presented the compromise plan to producers and consumers, and it was unlikely he would do so before Friday, they said. There was widespread confidence a result on the outstanding items could be reached by Friday, when the council session is due to end, consumers said. Bra Kanon completed bilateral consultations with several delegations today on the main sticking points in the draft buffer stock rules package, they said. Certain delegations wanted further discussion on the amount of non-member cocoa the buffer stock will be permitted to buy, differentials for different origin cocoas and limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby, and forward material, the delegates said. The buffer stock working group finalized the remaining buffer stock rules, with only minor modifications to the original draft buffer stock package produced last week, the delegates said. The ICCO council is due to elect a new executive director when it reconvenes Friday, producer delegates said. Producers intend to present a single candidate for the post, and this is most likely to be Edouard Kouame from Ivory Coast, they said. Earlier, the existing executive director, Kobena Erbynn from Ghana, was expected to re-nominated, but he is now likely to withdraw, the delegates said. The executive committee is due to meet Friday at 1100 GMT, with the council unlikely to reconvene until late Friday, consumers said. Reuter 
BANKERS SEE GOOD RECEPTION OF BP CREDIT FACILITY

A huge five billion dlr credit facility being syndicated for two subsidiaries of British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> should be well received in the market, given the relatively generous terms it carries, banking sources said. The sources said they believe the committed four year revolving credit - the largest of its kind in the euromarkets - carries a facility fee of 1/8 pct and that drawings will be at 1/8 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor). Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York, which is arranging the financing in conjunction with its London operation, was not available to commment on the terms. BP announced it was arranging the financing earlier today as part of its planned tender offer for the 45 pct of Standard Oil Co that it does not own already. In addition to the revolving credit, BP also is arranging a U.S. commercial paper program for an as yet undetermined amount, which will be supported by the revolver. Bankers noted that the terms on the new facility compare extremely favourably to those on other short-term facilities for which pricing has turned extremely fine due to competition for the mandates. It also contrasts with the 1/16 pct fee BP paid on a recent 1.5 billion dlr refinancing of some existing debt. Earlier today a Morgan Guaranty official, while declining to reveal the pricing on the facility said that banks would be "compensated fairly" since this is a special purpose facility which must be completed quickly, with the signing expected in about 10 days. The facility is only being syndicated among BP's relationship banks and therefore has large individual commitments from the banks. Lead managers are being recruited at the 200 mln dlr level, co-lead managers at 125 mln and managers at 75 mln. However, bankers said that despite the size it is likely the financing will get done quickly since banks will want to be seen as supporting the relationship. The financing is being arranged in the name of BP International and BP North America. Reuter 
BRITAIN'S CENTRIST ALLIANCE GAINS IN LATEST POLL

Britain's centrist Alliance has gained further ground and now stands second to the ruling Conservatives according to a new public opinion poll, leaving the main opposition Labour Party trailing in third place. The Gallup survey to be published in tomorrow's Daily Telegraph newspaper shows the Conservatives with a popularity rating of 37.5 pct, followed by the Social Democrat/Liberal Alliance with 31.5 pct and Labour with 29.5 pct. A Marplan poll published in this morning's edition of the Today newspaper gave the Conservatives 36 pct against a tied figure of 31 pct each for Labour and the Alliance. Last month a Marplan poll gave the Tories 38 pct, the Alliance 21 pct and Labour 37 pct. The latest poll findings would, if translated into an election result, produce a hung parliament where no single party enjoyed an overall majority, analysts said. That should dampen speculation of an early June election, they added. Reuter 
MEXICO DENIES BRITISH BANKS BALKING AT DEBT DEAL

Mexico denied reports that British banks are resisting signing a 76 billion dlr new loan and rescheduling package. In a statement, the Finance Ministry said the process for formalizing the package was going as planned. Banking sources in London had been quoted earlier as saying the British banks were balking at signing the package in an effort to get all participants to contribute equally to a new 7.7 billion dlr loan contained in the deal. However, the Finance Ministry statement said all the British banks had promised their participation in the loan. "The contribution of each one of them corresponds exactly to the request of the Mexican government," the statememt said. The ministry said Citibank, which chairs Mexico's bank advisory committee, has received cables from the British banks "confirming said commitment." The ministry said the books on the package would be closed by mid-April and the first 3.5 billion dlrs of the new money should arrive by the end of the month. It also said French, Swiss and "some" Canadian banks had subscribed to the package and that the remaining Canadian banks would sign the accord in the next few days. REUTER 
FISONS RAISING 110 MLN STG IN SHARE PLACING

Fisons Plc <FISN.L> said it planned to raise about 110 mln stg through an international placing of up to 18 mln new shares, mainly in Europe and the Far East. The operation would be conducted by a syndicate of international banks led by <County Securities Ltd>. The issue would not be underwritten and shares would only be allocated to syndicate banks to meet true demand from end-investors. The share price would be determined according to market conditions, but its expected that it would be at the middle market price. A Fisons statement said that although the pharmaceutical group achieved more than 80 pct of its sales outside the U.K., With rapidly increasing interest from international investors, less than two pct of its shares were held overseas. The issue would help meet this interest, enhance the group's standing in the capital markets and increase demand for its shares. The issue would also be a cost effective way of raising new equity, it said. The new funds would be used for the developing of existing operations and also for acquisitions if suitable opportunities arose. The issue, which represents 5.5 pct of the company's authorised capital, requires shareholder approval. A meeting has been arranged for April 21. Fisons shares eased one penny on the announcement by 0830 GMT to 657p. REUTER 
IBM AUSTRALIA CREDIT ISSUES AUS DLR EUROBOND

IBM Australia Credit Ltd is issuing a 75 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 24, 1990 with a 14-1/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/4, Salomon Brothers International Ltd said as lead manager. The non-callable bonds will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Gross fees of 1-1/2 pct comprise 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined and one pct for selling. There will be co-leads. The borrower is wholly owned by International Business Machines Corp <IBM.N>. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 700 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands will drain some 501 mln stg while a rise in note circulation and bankers' balances below target will take out around 285 mln stg and 45 mln stg respectively. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add some 120 mln stg to the system today. REUTER 
INDIA BUYS 20,000 TONNES OF RAPESEED OIL

The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought a 20,000 tonne cargo of optional origin rapeseed oil at its vegetable oil import tender yesterday, traders said. The oil was for June 20/July 20 shipment at 321 dlrs per tonne cif. Traders said the STC attempted to buy eight cargoes of processed palm oil but its price ideas were too low for exporters. It also failed to secure soyoil for the same reason, they said. REUTER 
COMMONWEALTH BANK ISSUES DUAL CURRENCY BOND

Commonwealth Bank of Australia is issuing a 15 billion yen dual currency bond due April 24, 1992 with an eight pct coupon and priced at 101-3/4 pct, Salomon Brothers International said as lead manager. The issue is payable and redeemable in Australian dollars although coupon payments will be in yen. Upon redemption, holders will be repaid at a rate of 83.91 yen per Australian dollar. Salomon said that the current exchange rate is 103.62 yen to the Australian dollar. Payment date is April 25, and the securities are available in denominations of five mln yen. They will be listed on the London Stock Exchange. There is a 1/14 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
WALT DISNEY INCREASES EUROBOND TO 75 MLN AUST DLRS

The amount of a eurobond issued yesterday by Walt Disney Co Ltd has been raised to 75 mln Australian dlrs from an original 60 mln, lead manager Warburg Securities said. The issue, which matures on May 7, 1990, has a 14-1/2 pct coupon and is priced at 101-3/8 pct. REUTER 
IBM AUSTRALIA CREDIT ISSUES AUS DLR EUROBOND

IBM Australia Credit Ltd is issuing a 75 mln Australian dlr eurobond due April 24, 1990 with a 14-1/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/4, Salomon Brothers International Ltd said as lead manager. The non-callable bonds will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Gross fees of 1-1/2 pct comprise 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined and one pct for selling. There will be co-leads. The borrower is wholly owned by International Business Machines Corp <IBM.N>. REUTER 
MEXICO DENIES BRITISH BANKS BALKING AT DEBT DEAL

Mexico denied reports that British banks are resisting signing a 76 billion dlr new loan and rescheduling package. In a statement, the Finance Ministry said the process for formalizing the package was going as planned. Banking sources in London had been quoted earlier as saying the British banks were balking at signing the package in an effort to get all participants to contribute equally to a new 7.7 billion dlr loan contained in the deal. However, the Finance Ministry statement said all the British banks had promised their participation in the loan. "The contribution of each one of them corresponds exactly to the request of the Mexican government," the statememt said. The ministry said Citibank, which chairs Mexico's bank advisory committee, has received cables from the British banks "confirming said commitment." The ministry said the books on the package would be closed by mid-April and the first 3.5 billion dlrs of the new money should arrive by the end of the month. It also said French, Swiss and "some" Canadian banks had subscribed to the package and that the remaining Canadian banks would sign the accord in the next few days. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 265 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with 265 mln stg in assistance this morning. This compares with the bank's estimate of the shortage in the system of 750 mln stg, earlier revised up from 700 mln. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 119 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 144 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 
BANK OF JAPAN INTERVENES TO STEM DOLLAR FALL

The Bank of Japan intervened in the market to keep the dollar above 149 yen but the unit was under strong selling pressure by an investment trust, dealers said. The central bank stepped into the market when the dollar fell towards 149.00 yen, but a trust bank aggressively sold dollars to hedge currency risks, and the Bank intervened again at 149.00, they said. The trust bank apparently changed its earlier view that the dollar would rise and started selling relatively large amounts of dollars, pushing the unit down to 148.80 at one point, brokers said. One dealer estimated that the Bank bought 400 mln to 500 mln dlrs as it tried to keep the U.S. Currency above 149 yen. REUTER 
WALT DISNEY INCREASES EUROBOND TO 75 MLN AUST DLRS

The amount of a eurobond issued yesterday by Walt Disney Co Ltd has been raised to 75 mln Australian dlrs from an original 60 mln, lead manager Warburg Securities said. The issue, which matures on May 7, 1990, has a 14-1/2 pct coupon and is priced at 101-3/8 pct. REUTER 
SUGAR MARKET SEES GOOD RECENT OFFTAKE

Reports the Soviet Union has lately extended its recent buying programme by taking five to eight raws cargoes from the free market at around 30/40 points under New York May futures highlight recent worldwide demand for sugar for a variety of destinations, traders said. The Soviet buying follows recent whites buying by India, Turkey and Libya, as well as possible raws offtake by China. Some 300,000 to 400,000 tonnes could have changed hands in current activity, which is encouraging for a sugar trade which previously saw little worthwhile end-buyer enquiry, they added. Dealers said a large proportion of the sales to the Soviet Union in the past few days involved Japanese operators selling Thai origin sugar. Prices for nearby shipment Thai sugars have tightened considerably recently due to good Far Eastern demand, possibly for sales to the Soviet Union or to pre-empt any large block enquiries by China, they said. Thai prices for March/May 15 shipments have hardened to around 13/14 points under May New York from larger discounts previously, they added. Traders said the Soviet Union might be looking to buy more sugar in the near term, possibly towards an overall requirement this year of around two mln tonnes. It is probable that some 1.8 mln tonnes have already been taken up, they said. Turkey was reported this week to have bought around 100,000 tonnes of whites while India had further whites purchases of two to three cargoes for Mar/Apr at near 227 dlrs a tonne cost and freight and could be seeking more. Libya was also a buyer this week, taking two cargoes of whites which, for an undisclosed shipment period, were reported priced around 229/230 dlrs a tonne cost and freight, they added. Futures prices reacted upwards to the news of end-buyer physicals offtake, although much of the enquiry emerged recently when prices took an interim technical dip, traders said. Pakistan is lined up shortly to buy 100,000 tonnes of whites although traders said the tender, originally scheduled for tomorrow, might not take place until a week later. Egypt will be seeking 20,000 tonnes of May arrival white sugar next week, while Greece has called an internal EC tender for 40,000 tonnes of whites to be held in early April, for arrival in four equal parts in May, June, July and August. REUTER 
LIBERIAN SHIP GROUNDED IN SUEZ CANAL REFLOATED

A Liberian motor bulk carrier, the 72,203 dw tonnes Nikitas Roussos, which was grounded in the Suez canal yesterday, has been refloated and is now proceeding through the the canal, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said. Reuter 
COCOA BUFFER STOCK COMPROMISE GAINING ACCEPTANCE

A final compromise proposal on cocoa buffer stock rules presented by International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council chairman Denis Bra Kanon is swiftly gaining acceptance by consumer and producer members, delegates said. "We are close, nearer than ever to accepting it, but we still have some work to do," producer spokesman Mama Mohammed of Ghana told Reuters after a producers' meeting. European Community, EC, delegates said EC consumers accepted the package in a morning meeting and predicted "no problems" in getting full consumer acceptance. Delegates on both sides are keen to come to some agreement today, the last day of the fortnight-long council meeting, they said. The compromise requires that buffer stock purchases from non-ICCO member countries cannot exceed 15 pct of total buffer stock purchases, delegates said. The non-member cocoa issue has been among the most contentious in the rules negotiations. The 15 pct figure, up five percentage points from earlier proposals, represents a concession to consumers, delegates said. They have demanded a larger allowance for non-member cocoa in the buffer stock than producers have wanted. Another problem area, delegates said, was the question of price differentials for different origins of cocoa bought into the buffer stock, by which the buffer stock manager could fairly compare relative prices of different cocoas offered to him. The compromise narrowed the range of differentials between the origins from what previous proposals had detailed -- a move some delegates described as "just fiddling." But the adjustments may prove significant enough to appease some countries that were not satisfied with the original proposed differentials assigned to them, delegates said. The compromise also stated buffer stock purchases on any day would be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate or forward positions, delegates said. If the compromise is accepted by the council, most consumers and producers want buffer stock rules to take effect next week, or as soon as practically possible. The full council is scheduled to meet around 1500 GMT to discuss the compromise, and could agree on it then if all parties are satisfied, they said. Consumers are due to meet before the council. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 663 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it gave the money market a further 663 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total assistance so far today to 928 mln stg and compares with its forecast shortage which it earlier revised up to 850 mln stg from 750 mln. The central bank purchased bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct comprising 267 mln stg bank bills, four mln stg local authority bills and one mln stg treasury bills. It also bought 378 mln stg bank bills and 13 mln stg of treasury bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
COMMERCIAL UNION GETS MEDIUM-TERM NOTE PROGRAM

Commercial Union Assurance <CUAC.L>, a composite insurance company in the U.K., Said it is arranging a financing facility totalling 750 mln European Currency Units (ECUs) which will now include a medium term note program. Barry Cameron-Smail, Commercial Union's treasurer, said the new financing will not increase its debt outstanding but rather act as an umbrella for all its financing needs. Commercial Union has had a Euro-commercial paper program since the autumn of 1985 and a guilder commercial paper program since January 1986. Cameron-Smail said Commercial Union decided on having the financing denominated in ECUs because it is more stable than most major currencies, and because it would give greater flexibility in its financings as it expands operations abroad. Although banks are anxious to develop a market for medium term notes, only a few companies such as Electrolux AB and Pepsico Inc have gone so far as to arrange one. Commercial Union is the first U.K. Company to set up such a program. Cameron-Smail said the company seeks to help the development of such a market as it would provide a new funding base for its medium term assets. Cameron-Smail said that aside from traditional lines of business, Commercial Union would like to move into other areas where it may not be able to fund the assets itself. "This (the medium term note program) will be the platform for developing those assets," he said. He said Commercial Union will work closely with dealers for the note program to find the right pricing level to satisfy investor demands. The program will be investor driven, he noted, adding that the company wants the notes placed with end investors and not traded in the secondary market. Commercial Union will be able to issue medium term notes in U.S. Dollars or sterling, with the dollar notes listed in Luxembourg, while the sterling notes will be listed in London. Bankers expect that the maturities will be concentrated in the one to five year area. The dealers for the program are Barclays de Zoete Wedd, Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd, Goldman Sachs International, Swiss Bank Corporation International Ltd and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd. REUTER 
UNION ELECTRIC SEEKS 150 MLN DLR LOAN FACILITY

The Missouri-based energy service company, Union Electric Co, is seeking a 150 mln dlr, four-year euro-term loan facility, Swiss Bank Corporation International Ltd said as arranger. The loan will carry a margin of 20 basis points over London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Amounts pre-paid under the loan may, at the option of the borrower, be converted into a revolving credit commitment with an equivalent maturity to the original maturity on the loan. There will be a 12.5 basis point commitment fee on the revolving credit. REUTER 
MORGAN GUARANTY JOINS DEALERS FOR BSAF PROGRAM

Morgan Guaranty Ltd said it has been added to the group of dealers for the euro-commercial paper program for BASF Corp that was launched last year. The program is for an unspecified amount and is guaranteed by the parent BASF Ag. The other dealers are Union Bank of Switzerland and Morgan Stanley International. REUTER 
COCOA CONSUMERS ACCEPT COMPROMISE BUFFER PLAN

Consumer members of the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, accepted a final buffer stock rules compromise, "on the condition that producers also agree," consumer spokesman Peter Baron said. The full council was meeting at 1530 GMT to discuss the compromise, which was put together yesterday by ICCO chairman Denis Bra Kanon. Consumer delegates said they were optimistic the council could reach agreement on the rules fairly quickly. Reuter 
U.K. ISSUES 250 MLN STG IN INDEX-LINKED BONDS

The U.K. Treasury issued to the Bank of England 250 mln stg in two tranches of existing index-linked stocks, for first dealings on Monday, the Bank said. The issues are 150 mln stg of 2-1/2 pct index-linked Treasury stock due 2011 and 100 mln of 2-1/2 pct index-linked Treasury due 2024. The latter stock is free of tax to residents abroad (FOTRA). The bonds will be available to the U.K. Government bond market from Monday at certified prices of 113.00 stg pct for the 2-1/2s of 2011 and 85-24/32 stg pct for the 2-1/2s of 2024. Several dealers had expected the Bank of England to announce further issues of index-linked bonds today in the light of strength seen in this sector of the market over the past few days. Some prices advanced by as much as 1-1/2 points yesterday as the rest of the market eased back further. However, one or two traders expressed surprise that the authorities had issued further bonds of any kind in the light of the nervous conditions prevailing in the market. In such relatively small amounts, the new issues were unlikely to have a significantly harmful effect on Government bond prices in general, dealers said. Prices of index-linked bonds fell back slightly after the stock tranches were announced, with the 2-1/2 pct index-linked stock due 2016 quoted at 102-25/32 stg pct after 102-29/32 shortly before the announcement. REUTER 
SOCIETE GENERALE ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN BOND

Societe Generale is issuing a 15 billion yen bond due April 21, 1992 carrying a coupon of 4-1/2 pct for the first four years and priced at 102, Mitsui Trust International Ltd said as joint book runner. In the fifth year, the coupon rises to 7-1/2 pct but the bond is callable after four years. Japan's Ministry of Finance does not permit the issuance of euroyen bonds with maturities shorter than five years. Daiwa International (Europe) Ltd is the other joint book runner. Payment is due April 21. The securities are available in denoninations of 10 mln yen each and will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. There is a 1-1/4 pct selling concession and a 5/8 pct combined management and underwriting fee. REUTER 
ICCO COUNCIL AGREES COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) Council reached agreement on rules to govern its buffer stock, the device it uses to keep cocoa off the market to stabilise prices, ICCO delegates said. The date on which the new rules will take effect has not been decided but delegates said they expected them to come into force early next week, after which the buffer stock manager can begin buying or selling cocoa. Since prices are below the "may-buy" level of 1,655 Special Drawing Rights a tonne set in the cocoa pact, the manager is likely to buy cocoa sooon to support the market, they said. Delegates and traders said they expected the manager, Juergen Plambeck, to intervene in the market within three weeks of the pact coming into force. The rules permit him to buy and sell cocoa from origins or the second hand market on an offer system, not by means of a posted price as in the previous cocoa accord. The cocoa will be priced according to a fixed set of differentials, ranging from 137 stg for most expensive Ghana cocoa to zero for Malaysian cocoa. Purchases from non-members, such as Malaysia, will be limited to 15 pct of the total stock and those on any one day should be limited to 40 pct each in nearby, intermediate and forward positions. The council meeting, which is expected to conclude two weeks of sessions involving various working groups and the council itself, was continuing, the delegates said. The current cocoa agreement came into force on January 20 during a previous meeting of the council which was unable to agree on the rules to implement buffer stock operations. REUTER 
COCOA BUFFER STOCK RULES EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY

The cocoa buffer stock rules just decided by the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, council will take effect immediately, delegates said. That means the buffer stock manager is likely to begin buying cocoa within two or three weeks, after organizing communication systems and assessing the market, they said. Reuter 
SVENSKA FINANS GETS 100 MLN DLR EURO-CP PROGRAM

A 100 mln dlr euro-commercial paper program has been arranged for Svenska Finans International BV, Manufacturers Hanover Ltd said as one of two arranger/dealers. The other arranger/dealer is Svenska Handelsbanken Plc. The borrower is the wholly owned international holding company subsidiary of Svenska Finans AB, a subsidiary of Svenska Handelsbanken, Sweden. In connection with the program, the parent has issued a letter of intent, which is not a guarantee but states the parent's intention to make sure a subsidiary meets its financial obligations. REUTER 
BIFFEX LOOKING TO JOIN NEW FUTURES EXCHANGE

The Baltic International Freight Futures Exchange (BIFFEX) said it agreed to pursue negotiations with other futures markets on the Baltic Exchange with a view to merging into a new futures exchange. Legal advisers have already been instructed to implement amalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, the Soya Bean Meal Futures Exchange and the London Meat Futures Exchange. The London Grain Futures Market has also discussed merging with the other markets. The aim of the merger is to seek Recognised Investment Exchange status as required by the 1986 Financial Services Act. Reuter 
FRENCH SKI EQUIPMENT MAKER SEEKS EURO-CP/CREDIT

Salomon SA, the French maker of ski bindings and boots, said it is seeking a 75 mln dlr euro-commercial paper program that will be supported by a 75 mln dlr committed syndicated revolving credit. The launch of the program is still subject to final approval of the French authorities. Morgan Guaranty Ltd is the arranger for the program and the revolving credit and will act as one of the dealers for the commercial paper along with Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd. Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York, London branch, will be issuing and paying agent. None of the terms were disclosed. REUTER 
COCOA BUFFER DIFFERENTIALS DETAILED

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council agreed standard price differentials for different origin cocoas to form part of the buffer stock buying and selling procedure, consumer delegates said. The buffer stock manager will accept offers for different origin cocoas according to a sliding scale of price differentials, under which Ghana cocoa will be pegged at a 137 stg premium to Malaysian. Thus, if the buffer stock manager was buying cocoa based on a Malaysian price of 1,200 stg a tonne, he would accept Ghana offers up to 1,337 stg. Differentials were fixed as follows, Country Differential stg/tonne Malaysia 0 Brazil 55 Ivory Coast 67 Cameroun 77 Nigeria 120 Togo 130 Ghana 137 Nigeria's differential is on "landed weight" terms. Shipping weight terms will be accepted at a 15 stg discount to this rate. Reuter 
COCOA COUNCIL MEETING ENDS AFTER AGREEING RULES

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) council adjourned after agreeing buffer stock rules for the 1986 International Cocoa Agreement, an ICCO spokesman said. The buffer stock will begin operations immediately, he said. He confirmed delegate reports that the buffer stock manager will trade cocoa by means of an offer system, and according to fixed differentials for cocoa from different origins. Purchases from non-members will be limited to 15 pct of the total and buying or selling operations in any one day will be restricted to a maximum of 40 pct each for nearby, intermediate and forward positions, he said. Reuter 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS ADJOURN TO TUESDAY

Talks between management and unions at Cargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed processing plant at Seaforth adjourned today without a solution to the three month old strike, a company spokesman said. Negotiations will resume next Tuesday, he said. Reuter 
NEW LME ALUMINIUM CONTRACT WELCOMED BY TRADE

The London Metal Exchange's, LME, decision to introduce a dollar-denominated aluminium contract, with the Port of Singapore listed as a delivery point, is a positive move, physical traders and LME dealers said. Earlier this week the LME declared that a 99.70 pct minimum purity aluminium contract would commence trading on June 1, 1987, alongside its long-established sterling-based 99.50 pct contract. This is the LME's first dollar contract and non-European delivery point, and the Board and Committee are looking at Singapore as a delivery point for other contracts. Trade sources said the LME's new contract will conform with existing industry practice, where 99.70 standard re-melt material, priced in dollars, is most commonly traded. The location of a warehouse in Singapore is also a positive move by the LME, given its ideal location for Australian and Japanese traders, who would be able to place metal on to warrant speedily and relatively inexpensively, they said. Hedging during the LME ring sessions becomes much simpler with a dollar contract. At present pre-market trading is almost exclusively dollar-based, but currency conversions have to be done during the sterling rings, they added. LME ring dealers said the new contract would match more closely trade requirements and possibly alleviate some of the recent wide backwardations. Very little physical business is now done in 99.50 pct purity metal, nearly all of which is produced in Eastern Bloc countries, such as Romania. The Soviet Union also produces 99.50 pct, but has declined as an exporter recently, they said. Some dealers said the new 99.70 contract may suffer from liquidity problems initially, as business may continue to centre on the present good ordinary brand (gob) contract, where there are many holders of large short positions on the LME. But others said the new contract would soon attract trading interest, given that much 99.70 metal has already been attracted to the LME's warehouses by backwardations. The LME also has a much more viable liquidity base for a new contract, compared to the Comex market in New York, where high grade aluminium futures are not particularly active, they said. Thus, it seems likely that the sterling contract will eventually lose trading interest and volumes will decline. Like standard zinc, which was superseded by a high grade contract, gob aluminium will probably be replaced, although the process in this case may take longer, they added. Forming a new contract and establishing a Singapore warehouse are constructive moves by the LME but backwardations, which make physical trading difficult, would not totally disappear as a result, the trade sources said. These premiums for prompt metal have become a semi-permanent feature over the last year, due to increased business and volatility in traded options, and are presently around 50 stg. Increasingly large granting of option positions has been taking place. When some of these are declared and exercised at the end of the relevant month, physical tightness and squeezes around these dates are commonplace, they said. Listing Singapore as a delivery point allows Far Eastern operators to deliver aluminium into a LME warehouse instead of having to cover. But tightness and backwardations are seen continuing, even though the LME's new option contracts widen the gap between the declaration and prompt dates. These will be due on the first and third Wednesday of the month, whereas at present most fall on the 20th and 25th. Backwardations will remain while operators continue to grant options where potential tonnage to be delivered exceeds aluminium stock levels, an LME option trader said. Reuter 
IVORIAN CHOSEN COCOA COUNCIL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

Edouard Kouame, Ivorian delegate to the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO), was chosen Executive Director of the ICCO, effective October 1, ICCO officials said. Kouame will succeed Dr. Kobena Erbynn of Ghana in the post. REUTER 
CHINA HELPS IRAN TO DEVELOP NEW MISSILES - PAPER

Iran has produced a short-range surface-to-surface missile with technological help from China and is working with Peking on a longer-range missile capable of hitting most areas of Iraq, the Observer newspaper said. The British Sunday paper, quoting Iranian sources, said the shorter-range missile was based on a Chinese version of the Soviet-made Frog and had been fired at the Iraqi port of Basra. The missile has a range of 40 miles. The other type, similar to the Soviet army"s Scud B with a range of 180 miles, is at an advanced stage of development, according to the Observer. The development of a longer-range weapon would enable Iran to strike at many towns and cities on the territory of its relatively small neighbour. Earlier this month, Iran acknowledged it had acquired Chinese-made Silkworm missiles capable of hitting tankers carrying crude oil from Arab countries to the West. Iran said it would use its Silkworm anti-ship missile against shipping in the waterway only if Iraqi air and missile raids prevented it from exporting oil. The Silkworms are large mobile missiles with a range of 60 miles, which can carry a warhead of 1,000 pounds. REUTER 
COFFEE PRICES BAD NEWS FOR LATIN AMERICA -MINISTER

A senior Nicaraguan official said a recent plunge in coffee prices was economically and politically disastrous for Latin American coffee-producing countries. Nicaraguan Foreign Trade Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca was in London to brief International Coffee Organisation (ICO) executive board producer members after a meeting last weekend in Managua attended by eight Latin American coffee producers to discuss the fall in coffee prices. London coffee prices slid 300 stg per tonne in March, to 1,279 stg from 1,580 stg at end-February. Martinez told reporters the price fall since the ICO failed to agree export quotas on March 1 has had disastrous results on Latin America, both economically and politically. He urged continued negotiations among coffee producers to pave the way for a coffee export quota agreement by September. Coffee export quotas, used to regulate coffee prices under an International Coffee Agreement, were suspended a year ago when prices soared in response to a drought in Brazil. Central American economic ministers have estimated the region will lose 720 mln dlrs in foreign exchange earnings in 1987 if coffee prices are not rescued by a quota arrangement, Martinez said. He said ICO quota talks broke down last month because consumer members lack the political will to fully support commodity agreements, and because consumers tried to dictate to producers. REUTER 
IRAN'S NON-OIL EXPORTS RISE 35 PCT IN YEAR

Iran's non-oil exports were worth at least 750 mln dlrs in the year ended March 20, a 35 pct increase from the previous year, the national Iranian news agency IRNA reported. IRNA, monitored in London, quoted a senior Industry Ministry official as saying non-oil exports included carpets, animal skins, pistachios, fruit and industrial goods. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND FORECASTS SURPLUS IN MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it forecast a liquidity surplus of around 100 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, exchequer transactions will add some 985 mln stg to the system today while a fall in note circulation and bankers' balances above target will add around 360 mln stg and 110 mln stg respectively. Partly offsetting these inflows, bills for repurchase by the market will drain some 785 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and the treasury bill take-up will remove about 546 mln stg. REUTER 
GILLETTE CANADA ISSUES 500 MLN FRENCH FRANC BOND

Gillette Canada Inc is launching a 500 mln French franc bond, due April 30, 1992, paying nine pct and priced at 101-5/8, Banque Paribas said on behalf of Banque Paribas Paris, the lead manager. Morgan Guaranty Ltd will co-lead manage the issue, which will be sole in denominations of 10,000 francs and be listed in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. The bonds are non-callable and payment is April 29. REUTER 
GKN REORGANISES JOINT VENTURE

<GKN Plc> said it and <Zahnradfabrik Friedrichshafen AG> would reorganise the ownership structure of their <Viscodrive GmbH> joint venture. Under the agreement, GKN's Uni-Cardan AG unit would increase its stake in Viscodrive to 75 pct from 50 pct, while ZF's stake would drop to 25 pct. At the same time ZF would take an 80 pct stake in a new company, <Steertec Lenkungen GmbH> leaving Uni-Cardan with 20 pct. Viscodrive manufactures viscous control units while Steertec will develop power steering systems. REUTER 
QUEBECOR ISSUES 60 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Quebecor Inc <PQB.A>, the Canadian publishing concern, is issuing a 60 mln dlr convertible bond due May 14, 1997 bearing an indicated coupon of 5-3/4 to six pct, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager. The issue will be priced to have a conversion premium of 22 to 25 pct, with final terms to be set on Monday, April 6. The company's stock last traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange at 19-3/8. The securities will be listed in Luxembourg and are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. Fees include a one pct combined management and underwriting and a one pct selling concession. REUTER 
U.K. CONFIRMS FEBRUARY STERLING M3 RISE

The Bank of England said the broad measure of U.K. Money supply, Sterling M3, rose a seasonally adjusted 2.2 pct in February after a 1.1 pct rise in January. The unadjusted year on year rise was 18.9 pct after 17.6 pct in the year to January, the Bank said. The narrow measure of money supply, M0, fell by a seasonally adjusted 0.8 pct in February, and rose by a non-adjusted 4.1 pct year on year. In January, M0 fell by an adjusted 0.6 pct, and rose by a non-adjusted 4.1 pct year on year. The figures confirm provisional data issued by the Bank on March 19. The Bank said sterling bank lending grew by a seasonally adjusted 2.91 billion stg in February, after a 1.70 billion stg adjusted rise in January. The measure of private sector liquidity, PSL2, rose an unadjusted 0.9 pct in February, making a year-on-year unadjusted 13.1 pct rise. Adjusted, PSL2 rose by 1.2 pct in February, against a 0.6 pct rise in January, the Bank said. It said the public sector contribution to the growth in Sterling M3 was contractionary by about 40 mln stg after a contractionary contribution of 2.3 billion stg in January. Within this, the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement showed a repayment of 380 mln stg after a 3.7 billion stg repayment in January, while the non-bank private sector's holdings of government debt fell by about 260 mln stg after a 1.1 billion stg fall in January. There was a 50 mln stg rise in notes and coins in circulation in February after a 290 mln stg fall in January, the Bank said. Non-interest bearing sight deposits rose by 460 mln stg after a 1.5 billion stg fall in January and interest-bearing deposits fell 200 mln stg after a 1.6 billion rise in January. REUTER 
B AND C REORGANISES COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS

British and Commonwealth Shipping Co Plc <BCOM.L> said that it would reorganise its commercial and service operations into a single public grouping with autonomous management. The group has expanded rapidly in the past year through the 672.5 mln stg acquisition of <Exco International Plc> and 90 mln bid for <Steel Brothers Holdings Plc>. It noted that its operations were now divided between financial services, including money broking, investment management and forfaiting, and more traditional areas such as aviation, hotels, commodity trading and office equipment. It said that each sector had exciting prospects but required different methods of management and financing. B and C planned to form a new public company to hold the commercial operations and envisaged it operating with a capital of between 400 mln and 600 mln stg. It has retained Barclays de Zoete Wedd to advise on the introduction of independent investors to subscribe for additional capital, and believes that the proportion of equity capital held by outside investors would not exceed 20 pct of the total. The statement said that with the continued support of B and C, together with outside capital, the new grouping would emerge as a major group in its own right with the ability to take advantages of opportunities as they arose. However, the group would not seek a listing for the time being. B and C also said that its chairman, Lord Cayzer, planned to retire in June. The company proposed that he be appointed life president and that current chief executive John Gunn should take over as chairman. B and C shares eased 11p to 459p at 1040 GMT. REUTER 
BP U.K. REFINERY DUE TO PARTLY RE-OPEN NEXT WEEK

The British Petroleum Co PLC (BP.L) oil refinery at Grangemouth, closed after an explosion and fire eight days ago, is expected to partially reopen next week, a refinery spokesman said. He said the entire 178,500 bpd refinery has been shut since the accident which killed one person and damaged the site's hydrocracker. The main units will resume operation next week but the hydrocracker will be closed for an unspecified period. The spokesman said the refinery had been operating at about half its capacity since end-January due to overhaul work on part of the complex. The overhaul is expected to end by late April. REUTER 
CERTAINTEED SEEKS 150 MLN DLR CREDIT FACILITY

CertainTeed Corp is seeking a 150 mln dlr multiple facility, which will incorporate a revolving credit and allow the borrower to issue short-term advances, euronotes and euro-commercial paper on an uncommitted basis, Chemical Bank International said as arranger. The revolving credit will be for five years and drawings will be at 10 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor). There also will be a 150 mln dlr swingline option available under which drawings will be at 10 basis points over the U.S. Prime rate. The euronotes will have maturities of one, three and six months and be sold in denominations of 500,000 and one mln dlrs, while the commercial paper will have maturities of up to 183 days. There will be a facility fee of 10 basis points and utilisation fees of five basis points for up to 33 pct, 7.5 basis points for between 34 and 66 pct and 10 basis points for the remainder. CertainTeed, a U.S. Building products company, is 57 pct owned by Cie de Saint-Gobain <SGEP.PA>, the recently privatised French glass and materials group. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT OPERATE IN MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it had not operated in the money market during the morning session. Earlier, the Bank revised its forecast of the liquidity position to flat from its original estimate of a 100 mln stg surplus. REUTER 
ALGERIA SETS TENDER FOR RAPE/SUNFLOWERSEED OIL

Algeria will tender on April 3 for 20,000 tonnes of optional origin sunflowerseed oil/rapeseed oil for Apr/May loading, traders said. Meanwhile, the market is awaiting results of an Algerian import tender which took place over the weekend for about 10,000 tonnes of refined vegetable oils in drums, traders added. REUTER 
COCOA DEAL SEEN POSITIVE, BUT NO PRICE GUARANTEE

The buffer stock rules agreement reached on Friday by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) is an improvement on previous arrangements but the price-support mechanism is unlikely to do more than stem the decline in cocoa prices, many ICCO delegates and trade sources said. The accord was reached between producers and consumers of the 35-member ICCO council after two weeks of talks. European chocolate manufacturers and delegates said the accord may boost cocoa prices immediately, but world surpluses overhanging the market will pull prices down again before long. "If the buffer stock operation is successful, I doubt it will do anything more than stop the price from falling further, and it will have no relevance at all to retail chocolate prices," a European dealer said. And if the buffer stock manager delays too long in buying, or is not seen to be using his purchasing power when the market is relying on him to do so, the bearish trade reaction could pressure prices dramatically, dealers said. The buffer stock is the market-regulating tool of the ICCO, into which cocoa can be bought or from which it can be sold to manoeuvre prices into a pre-set stabilization range. A new cocoa agreement came into force in January but delegates could not agree buffer stock rules at that time. The new rules take effect immediately. The buffer stock manager is expected to begin buying cocoa within the next three weeks, after organizing communications with cocoa producing countries and assessing the market, since prices are below the "must-buy" level of 1,600 Special Drawing Rights per tonne specified in the agreement, the sources said. The buffer stock theoretically has funds to buy a maximum 100,000 tonnes within a five week period, but its approach will be more cautious, buffer stock manager Juergen Plambeck said. The buffer stock has around 250 mln dlrs in funds and a buying limit of 250,000 tonnes of cocoa, 100,000 tonnes of which are already in the buffer stock. ICCO council chairman and Ivorian Agriculture Minister Denis Bra Kanon said the new rules have a good chance of stabilizing prices. Ivory Coast is the world's largest cocoa producer. "We have established rules which will permit us to withdraw immediately the surplus of cocoa on the world market," Bra Kanon told reporters after the council adjourned. Bra Kanon reckoned the world cocoa surplus could be less than half the 94,000 tonnes estimated by the ICCO statistics committee. However, some producer and consumer members emerged from the final ICCO council meeting with reservations about the pact. Ghana, whose high-quality cocoa is the world's most expensive and provides 60 pct of the country's export earnings, made a formal protest to the council about the price differentials assigned to its cocoa, saying they were too high for Ghanaian cocoa to be bought for the buffer stock. According to consumer spokesman Peter Baron of West Germany, "Consumers weren't perfectly happy with the buffer stock rules. We reached a very sensitive compromise...There were no real winners or losers." Some European Community delegates were not satisfied that important points were fully discussed during the talks, and as a result, doubted the rules can deal with world surpluses as effectively as they could have, delegates said. Under the new rules, the buffer stock manager would seek offers of different origin cocoas, using price differentials to reflect different qualities. Non-ICCO member cocoa can comprise up to 15 pct of the total buffer stock. London cocoa prices traded today around 1,300 stg per tonne, down from around 1,450 stg in January 1987 and 1,750 stg in January 1986. A cocoa withholding scheme can take a further 120,000 tonnes of cocoa off the market if a special council session decides market conditions warrant it, according to the agreement. The withholding scheme can only be used if prices fall below the 1,600 SDR lower intervention price for more than five days and if 80 pct of the maximum buffer stock capacity has been filled, or if the buffer stock runs low on funds, it says. The ICCO will discuss withholding scheme rules at an executive committee meeting on June 9/12, ICCO officials said. REUTER 
GILLETTE CANADA ISSUES 500 MLN FRENCH FRANC BOND

Gillette Canada Inc is launching a 500 mln French franc bond, due April 30, 1992, paying nine pct and priced at 101-5/8, Banque Paribas said on behalf of Banque Paribas Paris, the lead manager. Morgan Guaranty Ltd will co-lead manage the issue, which will be sole in denominations of 10,000 francs and be listed in Luxembourg. Fees are 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. The bonds are non-callable and payment is April 29. REUTER 
QUEBECOR ISSUES 60 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Quebecor Inc <PQB.A>, the Canadian publishing concern, is issuing a 60 mln dlr convertible bond due May 14, 1997 bearing an indicated coupon of 5-3/4 to six pct, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager. The issue will be priced to have a conversion premium of 22 to 25 pct, with final terms to be set on Monday, April 6. The company's stock last traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange at 19-3/8. The securities will be listed in Luxembourg and are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. Fees include a one pct combined management and underwriting and a one pct selling concession. REUTER 
BRITISH GAS REPAYS 750 MLN STG DEBT

British Gas Plc <BRGS.L> said it repaid 750 mln stg debt to the government, the first tranche of 2.5 billion stg unsecured debentures issued as part of the process of privatisation last year. The repayment of the funds for the year to end-March was in line with details given in the prospectus last year. Before the sale, the government added the debt onto the British Gas balance sheet. In the year to end-March 1988 BGC will pay back a further 250 mln stg, followed by 400 mln in both 1988/89 and 1989/90 and the remainder in equal instalments of 350 mln over the next two years. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 129 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with assistance worth 129 mln stg in the afternoon session. This compares with the Bank's forecast of a shortage in the system today of around 100 mln stg. The central bank purchased 129 mln stg bank bills in band one at 9-7/8 pct. REUTER 
PANAMA SUGAR VESSEL SAFELY DOCKED AT GREENOCK

The Panamanian motor vessel Northern 1, 4,217 dwt, was safely towed into Greenock over the weekend after having its crankshaft broken off the Scottish coast during severe weather, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said. Northern 1 was loaded with 3,000 tons of sugar from Demerara. Reuter 
IDEC IZUMI ISSUES 35 MLN DLR EQUITY WARRANT BOND

Idec Izumi Corp is issuing a 35 mln dlr Eurobond with equity warrants, due April 23, 1992 with an indicated coupon of 2-3/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Daiwa Europe Ltd said. The non-callable bonds are guaranteed by Fuji Bank Ltd and final terms will be set on April 6. The warrants will be exercisable between June 1, 1987 and April 2, 1992. Gross fees of 2-1/4 pct comprise 3/4 pct for management and underwriting and 1-1/2 pct for selling. Listing will be in Luxembourg. REUTER 
BRITISH GAS REPAYS 750 MLN STG DEBT

British Gas Plc <BRGS.L> said it repaid 750 mln stg debt to the government, the first tranche of 2.5 billion stg unsecured debentures issued as part of the process of privatisation last year. The repayment of the funds for the year to end-March was in line with details given in the prospectus last year. Before the sale, the government added the debt onto the British Gas balance sheet. In the year to end-March 1988 BGC will pay back a further 250 mln stg, followed by 400 mln in both 1988/89 and 1989/90 and the remainder in equal instalments of 350 mln over the next two years. Reuter 
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE REVISES FT-SE CONSTITUENTS

The London Stock Exchange announced three changes to stocks included in the FT-SE 100 share index after a regular quarterly revision of its constituents. Recently privatised British Airways Plc, the 70th of the top 100 U.K. Companies by market capitalisation, is included from next quarter, while Argyll Group Plc and British and Commonwealth Holdings Plc return to the index after acquisitions, and rate 44th and 66th respectively. A statement said Imperial Continental Gas Association may be among three firms excluded if a proposed split in its operations goes through. Reuter 
TRADE BODY SETS NEW RULES FOR EURODOLLAR MANAGERS

The International Primary Market Makers Association, a trade organisation, said its board last week adopted new rules recommending lead managers of eurodollar bond issues make a market in that security for 12 months. Currently, while there is an implied obligation on the part of firms to make markets in issues they underwrite, there is no formal obligation to do so. Christopher Sibson, secretary general of IPMA, in explaining why the recommendation was adopted, said "It is aimed at the problem of the lead manager who does a deal and disappears." Sibson said the organization cannot force its members to adhere to the rule. "We're under no illusions about the legal binding force of these recommendations," he said. Lead managers have occasionally abandoned efforts to support an unprofitable issue just a short while after it has been offered, leaving investors and smaller firms with no one to buy it back from them. Most recently, when prices of perpetual floating rates notes (FRNs) suddenly plunged, most market makers abandoned the securities altogether, leaving investors stuck with about 17 billion dlrs worth of unmarketable securities on their books. Sibson noted that the recommendation adopted by the board only applies to fixed-rate dollar issues and would not have helped the floating rate sector out of its current crisis. Among other measures, the IPMA also decided that the criteria for membership should be tightened to exclude some of the smaller firms. Under the new rules, a firm must be the book running lead manager during the two preceding years of 12 internationally distributed debt issues denominated in U.S. Dlrs or in one of eight other major currencies. The former requirement called for three lead-managed issues. Sibson said he expects the tighter entrance requirements to pare 3he current list of 67 members down by six to 10 members. Smaller firms have criticized IPMA's efforts to restrict membership to the larger firms, saying it is anti-competitive and that it reinforces the big firms' already large market share. "Belonging to IPMA carries a certain amount of prestige with borrowers," said a dealer at a small foreign bank. "The borrower says to himself, "Well I can travel economy or I can travel first class,'" he said. Sibson defended the new rules saying "We have to steer a course between representing the interests of the major market makers and the less desirable goal of representing everybody." In any event, he said, the size of the market has expanded to the point where the former minimum size requirements were just too small. Also, IPMA members will be required to register with the Association of International Bond Dealers as reporting dealers, submitting daily information on prices on issues in which they are market makers. The effective date of the rule has yet to be determined. Dealers said that the rule would enable investors and secondary market makers to better evaluate the appropriate market price for their securities. Such a rule would make investors more confident of trading in the eurobond market and would increase liquidity, they said. Dealers said that the form of the reporting has not yet been spelled out. But previous discussion of the reporting requirement considered firms listing the closing price of a given security as well as the high and low for the day. Members also agreed at the IPMA meeting on the implementation of a new communications system which enables a lead manager to invite all potential management group members in to a deal at the same time. REUTER 
LONDON'S FTSE 100 FALLS BY LARGEST EVER MARGIN

The Financial Times/Stock Exchange index of Britain's 100 leading shares fell by its largest ever margin in points terms during a single session, dropping 46.1 to close at 2,002.5. The index earlier today touched a low of 1,993.7. Before today the largest one day points decline was a 35.8 point drop on February 9. The index fall was triggered by fears a trade war could break out with Japan following news the U.S. Increased tariffs on Japanese imports after the breakdown of a 1986 semiconductor pact. Today's sharp sell off at the Wall Street opening gave selling momentum to a market which was already at its lows. REUTER 
U.K. GOVERNMENT BONDS PLUMMET WITH U.S. ISSUES

The U.K. Government bond market closed showing severe losses ranging to almost 1-1/2 points as sharp falls for U.S Treasury bonds resulting from pronounced dollar weakness exacerbated existing uncertainty, dealers said. Selling was described as relatively modest, although very few buyers appeared to take up the slack. Much of the momentum was derived from the futures market, where a high 33,074 lots were traded in the long gilt June contract. The Treasury 13-1/2 pct stock due 2004/08 closed 1-7/16 point lower at 135-20/32 stg pct while the Treasury 10 pct due 1991 ended at 105-12/32 for a fall of 1-3/16. Dealers noted that market confidence had already been at a low ebb, with much of the recent impressive rise whittled away last week as investors reacted nervously to opinion polls showing unexpectedly strong gains for the centrist Liberal/Social Democratic alliance. The market had been sustained in large part during its recent rally by a virtual conviction that the ruling Conservative party would first call and then win a general election early this summer. However, advances credited to the alliance last week have cast doubt on both assumptions. "Turnover in the cash market has actually been quite small," one dealer said, adding that price movements had been very volatile at times. After losing ground heavily in the Far East in tandem with the flagging dollar, U.S. Bonds fell further in London trading but showed some signs of recovery late in the U.S. Morning as the dollar steadied a little against the yen. The latest period of weakness for the dollar has accentuated fears that currency risk might induce Japanese investors in particular to undertake dramatic reductions in their portfolios of U.S. Treasury issues. Dealers noted that early strength in the index-linked sector of the market, which had enabled the Government broker to supply some of both index-linked stock tranches announced on Friday, had soon fallen prey to the general depression affecting gilts. The Treasury 2-1/2 pct index-linked stock due 2020 closed just under one point lower at 100-11/32 stg pct. REUTER 
CREDITANSTALT ARRANGES 100 MLN STG CD PROGRAM

Creditanstalt-Bankverein <CABV.VI>, the largest commercial bank in Austria, has arranged a 100 mln stg certificate of deposit program, banking sources said. The dealers for the program will be S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd and County NatWest Capital Markets Ltd. REUTER 
MIDLAND SETS UP SUBSIDIARY IN FINLAND

Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L> said its <Midland Montagu> investment banking arm has set up a subsidiary in Finland, <Midland Montagu Osakepankki>. It said in a statement the new unit, the first Finnish subsidiary of a U.K. Bank, is a member of the Helsinki Stock Exchange. As such, it will be active in equity trading and will advise on new issues, listings, mergers and acquisitions. It will also help raising equity and debt capital and provide a full range of foreign exchange and treasury products. In the domestic money market, it will manage commercial paper issues and will trade in CD's and Treasury Bills. Reuter 
NIGERIA TO ISSUE 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF NOTES

Nigeria plans to issue on April 7 a further 1.5 billion dlrs in short-term promissory notes to its uninsured trade creditors in connection with existing arrears on those debts, Law Debenture Trust Corp Plc said as trustee for the notes. It said Nigeria also plans to hold talks with a newly appointed representative for those creditors fairly soon, and that Nigeria also will call "at an early date" an extraordinary meeting of noteholders, including holders of the new notes. The purpose of that meeting will be to consider a resolution to the arrears on the trade debt and the promissory notes. Nigeria missed the first principal payment due on the notes last autumn and another payment of about 30 mln dlrs that was due in early January because of a cash shortage, which stemmed partly from the drop in oil prices last year. An official of the Law Debenture Trust said he did not know when the new representative for the noteholders, David Murison, would meet the Nigerians. He noted the Nigerians currently are attempting to negotiate bilateral agreements with members of the Paris Club of western creditor governments under a multilateral pact on these debts reached in December. So far, bilateral accords have been reached with the U.K. And France. Law Debenture Trust, as trustee for the notes, has been attempting to organise a meeting between the note holders and Nigeria for the last coupole of months. The appointment of Murison, chairman of Westpac Banking Corp's Mase Westpac Ltd unit in London, was made in an effort to better coordinate these efforts. The Law Debenture official said Murison will begin talks with Nigeria as soon as they return to London. And although it is hoped that a meeting of all note holders could be held by end-May, he said this may not be possible since four weeks notice of the meeting is required by law. The discussions with the note holders are being held in conjunction with proposals to rescheduling Nigeria's debt to commercial banks and official credit agencies. When talks began last April on rescheduling part of the country's approximate 19 billion dlrs of foreign debt, the commercial banks insisted that it be contingent on Nigeria obtaining a rescheduling of its official debts as well. The Nigerians then extended this to include all uninsured trade debt. The commercial bank package has yet to be signed due in part to the reluctance of Japanese banks, which have a relatively small exposure, to participate. REUTER 
NIGERIA TO ISSUE 1.5 BILLION DLRS OF NOTES

Nigeria will issue April 7 1.5 billion dlrs in short-term promissory notes to its uninsured trade creditors in connection with existing arrears on those debts, Law Debenture Trust Corp Plc said as trustee for the notes. It said Nigeria also plans to hold talks with a newly appointed representative for those creditors fairly soon, and that Nigeria will call "at an early date" an extraordinary meeting of noteholders, including holders of the new notes. The purpose of that meeting will be to consider a resolution to the arrears on the trade debt and the promissory notes. Nigeria missed the first principal payment due on the notes last autumn and another payment of about 30 mln dlrs that was due in early January because of a cash shortage, which stemmed partly from the drop in oil prices last year. Reuter 
PARIS MEET AGREED NOT TO PUBLISH BANDS - LAWSON

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Paris last month agreed not to publish any bands in connection with their pact to stabilise currencies. Questioned by a parliamentary select committee about why the participating countries had not announced any bands, Lawson replied, "we all agreed it would be much more sensible not to." When asked whether that meant an informal joint currency float with set ranges was arranged in Paris, Lawson said "I do not want to reveal the precise nature of the agreement, so as not to make it easy for" speculation against the accord. Lawson said the Paris accord presumed that individual countries would take corrective action if their currency began reacting significantly to domestic macroeconomic factors. But if such movements were due to extraneous factors, Lawson said the other pact countries would come to its aid through concerted intervention on the foreign exchanges. "It is clear that both Germany and Japan are having difficulty adjusting to their very large exchange rate appreciations and making their economies more domestically oriented, just as it is taking time for the United States to make its own economy more export oriented," Lawson said. In his oral evidence to Parliament's Select Treasury Committee, Lawson repeated that he was happy with the pound's current level, adding that "It is an objective ... To try to keep it around that level." He said the perception of sterling on foreign exchanges had changed since the steep drop in oil prices, largely because the pound had weathered that period so successfully. "There has been a reassessment of sterling's fundamentals," Lawson said. He disagreed with what he termed "the grossly exaggerated claim" that real U.K. Interest rates were much higher than those of other major industrialsed countries. Using as a reference the key three-month sterling interbank rate as quoted in London, Lawson said Britain now had a real interest rate level of 5.75 pct - the same as Japan did and only a 0.75 percentaage point above the Group of Five average. Lawson confirmed that "over the medium and longer term, the government's objective is zero inflation." He said the government's intention of its PSBR constant at 1.0 pct of GDP "is the modern equivalent of the balanced budget doctrine." He added that "to allow the debt/GDP ratio to remain constant on anything other than zero inflation basis is simply a recipe for accelerating inflation." Reuter 
SALOMON SA EURO-CP/CREDIT TERMS DETAILED

A seven-year credit facility for Salomon SA, the French ski bindings and boots maker, will have a facility fee of 7.5 basis point, banking sources said. The financing involves a 75 mln dlr euro-commercial paper program which will be supported by a 75 mln dlr committed syndicated revolving credit. Morgan Guaranty Ltd is the arranger. Drawings on the revolving credit will be at a margin of 10 basis points over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Banks are being invited to join at 7.5 mln dlrs for 10 basis points and at five mln dlrs for eight basis points. Reuter 
TRADE BODY SETS NEW RULES FOR EURODLR MANAGERS

The International Primary Market Makers Association, a trade organisation, said its board last week adopted new rules recommending lead managers of eurodollar bond issues make a market in that security for 12 months. Currently, while there is an implied obligation on the part of firms to make markets in issues they underwrite, there is no formal obligation to do so. Christopher Sibson, secretary general of IPMA, in explaining why the recommendation was adopted, said "It is aimed at the problem of the lead manager who does a deal and disappears." Sibson said the organization cannot force its members to adhere to the rule. "We're under no illusions about the legal binding force of these recommendations," he said. Lead managers have occasionally abandoned efforts to support an unprofitable issue just a short while after it has been offered, leaving investors and smaller firms with no one to buy it back from them. Most recently, when prices of perpetual floating rates notes (FRNs) suddenly plunged, most market makers abandoned the securities altogether, leaving investors stuck with about 17 billion dlrs worth of unmarketable securities on their books. Sibson noted that the recommendation adopted by the board only applies to fixed-rate dollar issues and would not have helped the floating rate sector out of its current crisis. Among other measures, the IPMA also decided that the criteria for membership should be tightened to exclude some of the smaller firms. Under the new rules, a firm must be the book running lead manager during the two preceding years of 12 internationally distributed debt issues denominated in U.S. Dlrs or in one of eight other major currencies. The former requirement called for three lead-managed issues. Sibson said he expects the tighter entrance requirements to pare 3he current list of 67 members down by six to 10 members. Smaller firms have criticized IPMA's efforts to restrict membership to the larger firms, saying it is anti-competitive and that it reinforces the big firms' already large market share. "Belonging to IPMA carries a certain amount of prestige with borrowers," said a dealer at a small foreign bank. "The borrower says to himself, "Well I can travel economy or I can travel first class,'" he said. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses after forecasting a very large shortage of around 1.75 billion stg in the money market today. MORE 
SMITH AND NEPHEW ISSUES CONVERTIBLE EUROBOND

Smith and Nephew Associated Companies Plc is issuing an 85 mln stg convertible eurobond due May 7, 2002 paying a fixed coupon of four pct and priced at par, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The issue is callable at 106 pct declining by one pct per annum to par thereafter but is not callable until May 7, 1993 unless the share price exceeds the conversion price by 130 pct or the issue is more than 95 pct converted. There is a put option on May 7, 1993 which will give the investor an indicated annual yield to the put of 8-1/2 to 8-3/4 pct. Final terms will be fixed on, or before, April 8. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 7. The expected conversion premium is eight to 12 pct and the issue is convertible into Smith and Nephew ordinary shares. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 1.14 BILLION STG EARLY HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 1.143 billion mln stg assistance in response to an early round of bill offers from the discount houses. Earlier, the Bank forecast the system would face a very large deficit today of around 1.75 billion stg. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 393 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 649 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 85 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. In addition it bought 16 mln stg of local authority bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
DPCE SEEKS 14.6 MLN STG IN RIGHTS ISSUE

<DPCE Holdings Plc> said it planned to raise 14.6 mln stg net through an underwritten rights issue of 4.7 mln shares at 320p issued on a one-for-six basis. The funds would be used to expand the computer maintenance company's presence in major centres where computer technology is developed. The company planned to make acquisitions, extend the range of services it offered and buy capital equipment to support major new contracts. DPCE shares were unchanged at 365p. REUTER 
U.K. WHEAT AND BARLEY EXPORTS ADJUSTED UPWARDS

The U.K. Exported 612,000 tonnes of wheat and 498,800 tonnes of barley in February, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA) said. Based on the previous provisional figures issued for February, wheat exports were increased by 480,200 tonnes and barley by 283,800 tonnes. The new figures bring cumulative wheat exports for the period July 1-March 13 to 3.66 mln tonnes and barley to 3.50 mln, compared with 1.47 and 2.09 mln tonnes respectively last season. REUTER 
THATCHER SAYS TRADE TARGETS SET WITH MOSCOW

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher said she and Soviet Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov had set targets for increased trade between the two countries during talks earlier today. She said she hoped more economic exchanges between Britain and the Soviet Union "will also lead to increased friendship and increased understanding." Earlier, she told a meeting of Soviet and British businessmen that she had agreed with Ryzhkov that they would work to achieve a total volume of 2.5 billion roubles in bilateral trade by 1990. This would entail an increase by each side of 350 to 400 mln stg over their present export levels. "Mr Ryzhkov handed me a list of import and export opportunities which I hope you will all jump at," she told the meeting to mark the opening of new offices of the British- Soviet Chamber of Commerce. After her talks with Ryzhkov, Thatcher and the Soviet Premier were joined for the signing of agreements covering new scientific and cultural exchanges by Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who had nine hours of talks with her yesterday. REUTER 
K-O-P EQUITY WARRANT BOND EXPECTED TO BE SWAPPED

The proceeds from yesterday's 100 mln dlr equity warrant for Kansallis-Osake-Pankki (K-O-P) will probably be swapped into floating rate dollars once the final terms have been set for the deal, executive vice-president Erkki Karmila told a press conference. The seven-year issue has an indicated coupon of 4-1/8 to 4-5/8 pct and is priced at par. Final terms will be set on April 7. Karmila said that in the short term K-O-P did not need additional capital funds but the issue "gives us access to attractive funds." REUTER 
UK MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 570 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the market with a further 570 mln stg assistance during the morning after revising its estimate of the liquidity shortage to 1.85 billion stg, before taking account of its early round of bill purchases. Initially, the Bank put the likely shortage at some 1.75 billion and to help offset this gave early assistance of 1.143 billion. Its total help so far today amounts to 1.713 billion stg. MORE 
MAURITIAN SUGAR EXPORTS FALL IN FEBRUARY

Mauritius exported 47,144 tonnes of sugar (tel quel) in February, down from 57,911 tonnes (tel quel) shipped in January and 89,351 in February 1986, the Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture's Sugar News Bulletin said. Opening stocks at the beginning of last month totalled 320,057 tonnes, against 288,406 tonnes at the start of February last year. Closing stocks at the end of February were 270,212 tonnes, up from 196,309 tonnes at end-February 1986. The estimate for 1986 sugar production was unchanged from last month at 748,472 tonnes, raw value, the Chamber said. REUTER 
CHINA BUYS MALAYSIAN RBD PALM STEARINE

China bought 6,000 tonnes of Malaysian refined bleached deodorised palm stearine today for May shipment at prices equivalent to around 270 to 275 dlrs per tonne fob, traders said. REUTER 
BRAZIL TO BE WORLD'S THIRD LARGEST VEHICLES MARKET

Brazil will be producing 2.8 mln vehicles a year by the end of this century and it could become the world's third largest national market for motor vehicles, according to a report by the Economist magazine's Economist Intelligence Unit. The report stated that Brazil already offered a huge national market for the vehicle producers and offered potential access to other large Latin American markets. "Development of a fully integrated motor industry in Brazil may not be far away," it said. Volkswagen, General Motors, Ford and Fiat are all operating modern car plants in Brazil now, it added. "Multinationals will want to consolidate and then expand in Brazil because of the enormous sourcing opportunities that such a relatively low cost producer offers," the report said. It pointed out, however, that corporate life in Brazil was complicated by its economic situation. "At present Brazil is suffering from a debt crisis, rampant inflation and exchange rate fluctuations," the Intelligence Unit said. "In spite of this, Brazil's resilience is maintained by the potential created by its still under-exploited natural and human resources. The reward for holding out in the present economic climate could be huge," it added. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP

The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the deficit in the money market today up to a record two billion stg, before taking account of its morning operations, from 1.85 billion at midday. The Bank has provided the system with around 1.71 billion stg assistance so far today. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 168 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with a further 168 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so far today to 1.88 billion stg and compares with its estimate of a record two billon stg shortage in the system. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 25 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 138 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and three mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. It also bought two mln stg of treasury bills in band two at 9-13/16 pct. REUTER 
ICO BOARD PASSES OVER COFFEE QUOTA ISSUE

Executive board members of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, passed over the issue of export quota negotiations at its regular meeting here, delegates said. No move was made to reopen dialogue on export quotas and no further discussion on the issue is likely during the three-day talks, they said. Producer and consumer members of the ICO council failed to agree export quota shares in early March. Neither Brazil, the largest producer, nor the U.S., the largest consumer, are ready to be flexible, delegates said. "The situation is unchanged," consumer spokesman Abraham Van Overbeeke told reporters. "As long as Brazil sticks to its position there will not be quotas -- there is no point in meeting." At the last council meeting, Brazil wanted to maintain its previous quota share of around 30 pct of the market. Consumers and a splinter group of eight producers favoured redistribution of export shares using "objective criteria," which would likely have reduced Brazil's share. Brazilian delegate Lindenberg Sette said that, if quota negotiations were to resume, the 1.0 mln bag shortfall Brazil was willing to give up in early March if the producer proposal was accepted would no longer be on the table. "As we said from the start...No agreement, no one million bags," he told Reuters. Shortfalls of 200,000 bags offered by OAMCAF, the African and Malagasy Coffee Organization, and 20,000 bags offered by Angola, are also no longer valid, delegates said. The closest the board came to discussing quotas was a briefing by the Guatemalan ICO delegate Rene Montes on a recent Latin American producers meeting in Managua, delegates said. There, the producers expressed their political will to negotiate basic quotas, particularly in the face of the damaging drop in coffee prices after the council failed to agree quotas, Montes said. The ICO board also reviewed export statistics and stock verification. They expected talks on stock verification to take up the remainder of today's session, delegates said. Reuter 
ALUMINIUM CAPACITY GROWTH TREND SEEN INSUFFICIENT

Aluminium capacity expansion planned for the period after 1990 will be insufficient to supply any acceleration in demand growth, let alone an increase on the scale which seems likely, according to analyst Anthony Bird Associates' 1987 Aluminium Review. By 1995 non-socialist world primary capacity will need to be around 18 mln tonnes, whereas on current plans only 15 mln tonnes are scheduled, Bird said. Bird forecast higher economic growth after 1990 and increased imports by less developed countries. Aluminium consumption growth is not expected to accelerate by as much as general growth, but non-socialist world consumption is nevertheless forecast to increase sharply from 13.77 mln tonnes in 1990 to 17.25 mln tonnes in 1995, Bird said. Aluminium companies were slow to adjust to the pace of change after 1973, the review said, and now they have completed this transition they may be in danger of remaining preoccupied with the strategies of retrenchment and survival which have served them well in recent years. In order to encourage the construction of additional smelters aluminium prices will need to settle at a higher level. Production costs are likely to rise again in the years ahead as the glut of alumina capacity vanishes and electricity suppliers take a more aggressive line with aluminium companies, according to the review. At March 1987 prices the three most likely cost-price scenarios call for a long-run aluminium price of between 73 and 89.5 cents a lb, depending on exchange rates, Bird said. Such a price development is not expected to cause any marked competitive problems for the metal because of the likely rise in commodity prices as a whole and cost pressures in the pipeline for steel and copper. In the short term, however, the outlook is dull, Bird said, as the world economy has not responded well to the opportunities offered by cheap oil. Its 1987 consumption forecast of 13.01 mln tonnes is 0.4 pct down on 1986, while production is forecast six pct higher in 1987 at 12.67 mln tonnes. Reuter 
LONDON MEAT FUTURES NEED MARKETING - CHAIRMAN

Pigmeat and beef futures, which have been thinly traded on the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, despite lower physical prices and the introduction of new contracts, need more effective marketing, LMFE chairman Pat Elmer said in his annual report. In 1986 the Exchange introduced live cattle and pig cash settlement contracts, representing a move away from the problems of cash distortions and squeezes, which initial deliverable "buyers option" contracts created, he said. Although the physical industry is aware of the market and follows its prices keenly, this has not been reflected in market volume, Elmer said. "If we are to achieve our true potential the floor members must give the market much more time and attention," he added. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 215 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with late assistance of around 215 mln stg. This takes the bank's total help today to some 2.096 billion stg and compares with its forecast of a two billion stg shortage in the system today. REUTER 
AVA/DIXONS LITIGATION DROPPED

Dixons Group Plc <DXNS.L> said that following an agreement with <Audio/Video Af~filiates Inc>, AVA, all litigation between the companies has been dismissed. AVA filed suit against Dixons, Cyclops Corp, Allegheny Corp and others in connection with Dixons' recent tender offer for Cyclops on March 20. Dixons also said in today's statement that Cyacq Corp agreed to end its competing tender offer of 92.50 dlrs per share for all outstanding Cyclops common stock, which total some 5.4 mln shares. In line with Cyacq's decision, Dixons said it would now pay an additional 4.75 dlrs per share to each shareholder whose shares were purchased following its offer for Cyclops at 90.25 dlrs per share. It said the additional amount, when added to the original tender offer, totalled 95 dlrs per share. Dixons said on March 27 that it had raised its stake in Cyclops Corp to about 83 pct, and that it intended to increase from 90.25 dlrs to 95 dlrs the amount per share paid in the merger of a Dixons subsidiary with Cyclops. REUTER 
SOVIET UNION FEATURES IN U.K. GRAIN EXPORTS

The Soviet Union featured prominently in U.K. Grain exports outside the EC for the period July 1/March 13, taking a combined total of 1.10 mln tonnes of wheat and barley out of all-destination U.K. Exports of 7.16 mln tonnes, the Home Grown Cereals Authority said, quoting provisional Customs and Excise figures. The Soviet total comprises 634,000 tonnes of wheat and 472,000 tonnes of barley. Grain traders said the figures understate shipments already made by several thousand tonnes and they expect total U.K. Grain exports to the USSR this season to reach 2.5 mln tonnes, comprising 1.5 mln wheat/1.0 mln barley. Reuter 
FIAT PLANS MORE INVOLVEMENT IN HIGH TECH SECTORS

Italian automotive group Fiat SpA <FIAT.MI> plans greater involvement in emerging high-technology sectors which it believes will represent an increasing share of advanced economies, a group executive said. Francesco Gallo, senior vice-president of international activities, told a conference that Fiat was "fully aware that in the years to come, the automotive industry will not be among the fastest growing businesses." The group, with estimated revenue last year of 29,020 billion lire, would develop further in space and defence, telecommunications, bioengineering, and aviation, he said. Reuter 
LME LISTS BRAZILIAN ALUMINIUM BRAND

The London Metal Exchange (LME) has listed the aluminium brand "CBA' produced by Cia Brasileira de Aluminio at its Mairinque, Sao Paulo, plant. The brand will constitute good delivery from April 1, the LME said. Reuter 
GUATEMALA TO HOST OTHER MILDS COFFEE MEETING

Guatemala will host a meeting of other milds coffee producers probably in May to discuss basic export quotas, the Guatemalan delegate to the International Coffee Organization, ICO, said. No firm date has been set for the talks, Ambassador Rene Montes told reporters at the ICO executive board meeting here. Producer countries Brazil, Colombia, and a member of OAMCAF, the African and Malagasy Coffee Organization, may also be invited for consultation, he said. ICO producers and consumers could not agree on how to calculate export quota shares at a recent council meeting here. Other milds coffee producers include Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Mexico, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea, and Peru. Reuter 
BRITAIN GIVES FAMINE RELIEF AID TO MOZAMBIQUE

Britain has granted Mozambique about eight mln sterling for food aid and emergency relief for famine victims, the British High Commission announced. A high commission (embassy) statement said about 30,000 tonnes of cereals worth six mln sterling would be shipped to Mozambique, and the first load of 20,000 tonnes was due soon. Britain will give one mln sterling for other disaster relief programs and 1.3 mln sterling to relieve the plight of Mozambican refugees, it added. The statement said Britain would also contribute 1.3 mln sterling to the U.N. Refugee agency, UNHCR, for refugees in neighbouring countries, and give 750,000 sterling to relief agencies for food transport and distribution in Mozambique. The British public has also raised more than one mln sterling. Reuter 
SMITH AND NEPHEW COMVERTIBLE INCREASED, FIXED

Smith and Nephew Associated Companies Plc's 15-year convertible eurobond has been increased to 90 mln stg from the initial 85 mln and the final terms have been set, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The conversion price was set at 177-1/2 pence representing a premium of 11.99 pct over yesterday's closing price of Smith and Nephew shares of 158-1/2 pence. The investor put option on May 7, 1993 has been fixed at 133-1/2 pct to give the investor an annual yield to the put of 8-1/2 pct. The issue pays four pct and is priced at par. Yesterday on the grey market it was quoted at around 102-1/2 103-1/2 pct. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET OFFERED EARLY ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had invited an early round of bill offers from the discount houses after forecasting a shortage of around 1.2 billion stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills for repurchase by the market will drain some 526 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will remove around 1.79 billion stg. A rise in note circulation will take out a further 105 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions will add around 1.01 billion stg and bankers' balances above target some 185 mln stg. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 689 MLN STG EARLY HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with early assistance of 689 mln stg in response to an early round of bill offers from the discount houses. This compares with the Bank's estimate that the system would face a shortage of around 1.2 billion stg today. The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 347 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 207 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 135 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 
CNT ISSUES 20 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Caisse Nationale des Telecommunications is issuing a 20 billion yen eurobond due May 29, 1992 paying 4-3/8 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager IBJ International Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and is guaranteed by France. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 29 and the issue will be listed in Luxembourg. REUTER 
RURAL BANKING AND FINANCE ISSUES ZERO COUPON BOND

The Rural Banking and Finance Corporation of New Zealand is issuing a zero coupon eurobond with a total redemption amount of 19 billion yen, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The issue matures on April 15, 1992 and is priced at 81.22 pct. The deal is being sold through the Bank of New Zealand and is guaranteed by New Zealand. The selling concession is 85 basis points while management pays 70 basis points. The payment date is April 15 while listing will be in Luxembourg. REUTER 
U.K. INTERVENTION FEED WHEAT TENDER RESULT AWAITED

Grain traders said they were still awaiting results of yesterday's U.K. Intervention feed wheat tender for the home market. The market sought to buy 340,000 tonnes, more than double the remaining 150,000 tonnes available under the current tender. However, some of the tonnage included duplicate bids for supplies in the same stores. Since the tenders started last July 861,000 tonnes of British feed wheat have been sold back to the home market. REUTER 
NATIONWIDE ISSUING INDEX-LINKED LOAN STOCK

Nationwide Building Society said it is issuing 30 mln stg of index-linked loan stock due 2021 by way of a placing on a yield basis in the domestic sterling market. The issue's real rate of return, price and the amount of the first interest payment will be fixed at 1400 gmt today. The real rate of return will be the sum of 0.60 pct plus the gross real rate of return on the 2-1/2 pct index-linked Treasury stock due 2020. The issue will be partly paid with 25 stg pct payable on acceptance and the balance on July 1, 1987. REUTER 
SUGAR TRADERS FORECAST LIKELY EC SUGAR REBATE

London traders say the European Community is likely to award a maximum rebate of 46.80 European currency units per 100 kilos at today's tender, while traders in Paris predict a maximum award of 46.40 Ecus. Last week the EC awarded licences for 59,000 tonnes at a rebate of 45.678 Ecus. Trade views differed on the amount of sugar likely to be released today. London traders said the EC Commission will probably endeavour to release a large tonnage, and as much as 100,000 tonnes may be authorised for export under licences up to end-September. Paris traders put the likely tonnage at around 60,000. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET SHORTAGE FORECAST REVISED UP

The Bank of England said it had revised its estimate of the shortage in the money market up to 1.3 billion stg from 1.2 billion before taking account of its early operations. The Bank has provided 689 mln stg assistance so far today. REUTER 
U.K. INTERVENTION FEED WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET

A total of 126,031 tonnes of U.K. Intervention feed wheat was sold to the home market at this week's tender, provisional results show, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA), said. Actual prices were not reported but the wheat was sold at, or above, the March intervention price of 119.17 stg per tonne. Grain traders sought to buy about 340,000 tonnes. REUTER 
KEPPEL CORP CONVERTIBLE INCREASED TO 75 MLN DLRS

The U.S. Dollar convertible eurobond for Keppel Corp has been increased to 75 mln dlrs from the initial 60 mln, bookrunner Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd said. The coupon was set at four pct compared with an indication of four to 4-1/4 pct. The conversion price was set at 3.12 Singapore dlrs per share, a premium of 5.05 pct. The foreign exchange rate was set at 2.1381 Singapore dlrs to the U.S. Dollar. REUTER 
PRECIOUS METALS CLIMATE IMPROVING, SAYS MONTAGU

The climate for precious metals is improving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fears and the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets, brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said. Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms due to a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relative to gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. In March the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67. The supply/demand position has improved in the past year, and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver is modest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added. The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely to continue in the short term. A period of consolidation might be necessary before prices attempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long as the dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silver was positive. However silver was less likely to continue to outpace the other metals by such a margin, Montagu said. REUTER 
GMAC UNIT ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

GMAC (Australia) Finance Ltd is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 6, 1991 paying 14-1/4 pct and priced at 101 pct, sole lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by General Motors Acceptance Corp. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in London. The selling concession is 1-1/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 6. REUTER 
PRECIOUS METALS CLIMATE IMPROVING, SAYS MONTAGU

The climate for precious metals is improving with prices benefiting from renewed inflation fears and the switching of funds from dollar and stock markets, brokers Samuel Montagu and Co Ltd said. Silver prices in March gained some 15 pct in dlr terms due to a weak dollar and silver is felt to be fairly cheap relative to gold, Montagu said in its monthly silver newsletter. In March the gold/silver ratio narrowed from 74 to less than 67. The supply/demand position has improved in the past year, and despite a silver market surplus, the quantity of silver is modest enough to be absorbed by investors, it added. The report said the firmness in oil prices was likely to continue in the short term. A period of consolidation might be necessary before prices attempted to move significantly higher,it said, but so long as the dollar remains under pressure then the outlook for silver was positive. However silver was less likely to continue to outpace the other metals by such a margin, Montagu said. REUTER 
CEREALS MCAS TO BE UNCHANGED NEXT WEEK

Monetary compensatory amounts, MCA's, will be unchanged for the week starting April 6, EC Commission officials said. Cereals MCA's are plus 2.4 points for West Germany and the Netherlands, minus two points for Denmark, minus eight points for France, minus nine for Ireland, minus 5.7 for Italy, minus 25.7 for Britain, minus 44.1 for Greece and minus 10.5 for Spain. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED DOWNWARDS

The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's shortfall to around 1.25 billion stg from 1.3 billion before taking account of 775 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER 
ICO COFFEE PRODUCERS TO DISCUSS MARKET SITUATION

International Coffee Organization, ICO, producers will meet at 1500 GMT (0900 est) for a general discussion of the market situation, producer spokesman Lindenberg Sette said. The Brazilian delegate said several producers requested the meeting but Brazil was not among them. The ICO executive board's regular session this week has so far been confined to routine matters, with no attempt by producers or consumers to revive export quota negotiations, delegates said. Talks to restore quotas collapsed early last month when producers and consumers failed to resolve differences on how quotas should be allocated. Producer delegates said there was no sense of urgency among producers to reopen quota talks with consumers, with most countries now prepared to wait for the ICO's annual September council session to restart negotiations. Members of the Inter-African Coffee Organization called for today's producer meeting to exchange views on the market situation, the producer delegates said. The lack of a new debate on export quotas here this week was cited as the reason for renewed weakness in coffee prices in London and New York futures, traders said. Near May in London hit a five-year low this morning at 1,220 stg, about 50 stg below last night's close, they said. The executive board session looks set to end today, following a final session at 1600 GMT (1000 est) when a consultancy report of the operation of the ICO will be presented to producers and consumers, delegates added. Reuter 
FRENCH CEREAL EXPORTS THROUGH ROUEN UP IN MARCH

French cereals exports through Rouen port rose to 751,563 tonnes between March 1 and March 25 from 603,413 tonnes in the same 1986 period, freight sources said. The Soviet Union took 263,051 tonnes of wheat and barley, Saudi Arabia 90,944 tonnes barley, China 87,259 wheat, Algeria 64,896 wheat, Bangladesh 30,000 wheat, Morocco 27,500 maize, Greece 26,700 wheat and barley, Spain 25,124 wheat, Poland 24,683 wheat, Brazil 24,082 wheat, Italy 21,659 wheat, Cyprus 20,700 wheat and maize, Israel 16,500 maize and the U.K. 8,797 tonnes wheat. Six ships are loading 120,000 tonnes of wheat, the sources said. They include 30,000 tonnes for China, 31,000 for the Soviet Union, 25,000 for Turkey, and 35,000 for Italy. Another ship is loading 17,000 tonnes of colza for the Soviet Union. Another 12 ships should arrive to load 344,000 tonnes of cereals by the end of the week. Six are to load 186,000 tonnes of wheat for the Soviet Union. Two will load 60,000 tonnes of barley for Saudi Arabia, one 28,000 tonnes of wheat for China, two 25,000 tonnes of wheat each for Algeria and Turkey and one 20,000 tonnes of wheat for Italy. Another is expected to load 20,000 tonnes of colza for the Soviet Union. Flour exports through Rouen rose to 23,457 tonnes in the 25 day period from 5,500 in the equivalent 1986 period, the sources said. Sudan took 19,327 tonnes and west coast Africa 4,130. Four ships are currently loading 32,000 tonnes, including 24,000 for Egypt, 6,000 for Tanzania and 2,000 for Mauritania. A ship is expected later this week to load 12,000 tonnes for China. Reuter 
LONDON STOCK SYSTEM BIG SUCCESS, OFFICIAL SAYS

The restructured London Stock Exchange has proved itself an unqualified success in less than six months of operation, according to exchange chairman Sir Nicholas Goodison. More than 95 pct of the business has left the trading floor and is now conducted in the offices of member firms, Goodison said in remarks prepared for delivery in New York. "Competitive bids and offers can now be seen on screens all over the country and business done is displayed on those same screens," he said, reaching more investors than before. Goodison said the new system has helped investors by promoting greater competition that in turn has led to reduced commissions and spread. He said the exchange is now working on a small order automated execution system and a system to transfer securities without certificates. New laws to be enacted in full later this year will help the Securities and Investments Board investigate suspected abuses and punish wrongdoing, Goodison said. He believes it is a misconception to say that the U.K. system of self-regulation is not as good as the U.S. system. He noted that any violations of the rules are a criminal offense. "There is no fifth amendment plea to offer a U.K. inspector hot on the trial of an insider dealer," Goodison said, in a reference to the U.S. legal system which allows individuals to remain silent on the grounds that they may incriminate themselves. Goodison said a major goal of the London exchange is to persuade multinational corporations to seek a listing in London. He said about 200 U.S. companies are now listed in London, enhancing their ability to raise capital. Reuter 
U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES

A total 102,350 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 46.864 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at today's European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said. Out of this, traders in France received 31,000 tonnes, in West Germany 21,000, in Belgium 19,050, in the U.K. 15,800, in Denmark 8,500, in the Netherlands 6,000 and in Spain 1,000 tonnes, it added. Earlier today, London traders had expected the subsidy for the current season whites campaign for licences to end-Sep to be around 46.80 Ecus per 100 kilos while French traders had put the rebate at around 46.40 Ecus. Traders here had also forecast today's total authorised sugar tonnage export awards up to 100,000 tonnes versus 59,000 last week when the restitution was 45.678 Ecus. Total export authorisations for the 1985/86 campaign (42 weeks) now stand at 2,076,620 tonnes. REUTER 
U.K. EXPORT CREDIT AGENCY CHANGES PREMIUMS

The U.K. Export Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD) said it would change the system of premiums it levies from British exporters, reducing their costs when they tender for a contract abroad. It said in a statement that the changes involved halving the rate of non-refundable premiums levied by the ECGD from exporters before the contract they tender for is allocated. The rates of additional premium paid by successful tenderers will rise. The last overhaul in premiums was in 1984 when charges for cover rose sharply after several years of heavy losses. REUTER 
JARDINE DECLINES COMMENT ON HONGKONG LAND REPORT

A spokesman for Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd <JARD.HK> said he could neither confirm nor deny a newspaper report which said Jardine was thinking of moving its listed property subsidiary <Hongkong Land Ltd> to Bermuda. "I don't know how the report was originated ... I cannot comment," the spokesman at Jardine's London office said when asked to react to a report in the Daily Telegraph newspaper. The report said Jardine, which moved its place of domicile from Hong Kong to Bermuda in the wake of the agreement to transfer the British colony back to China in 1997, was contemplating a similar move for Hongkong Land. The Daily Telegraph quoted Jardine chairman Simon Keswick as saying Hongkong Land was at a crossroads now that all its non-property assets as well as its major residential properties in Hong Kong are being sold off. This left the company to focus its attention on prime site commercial property in Hong Kong's city centre only, it said. "If we can't find any opportunities here we may have to look abroad ... If we look abroad the structure of the company becomes very important," Keswick was quoted as saying. REUTER 
KAINES CONFIRMS WHITE SUGAR SALES TO INDIA

London-based sugar operator Kaines Ltd confirmed it sold two cargoes of white sugar to India out of an estimated overall sales total of four or five cargoes in which other brokers participated. The sugar, for April/May and April/June shipment, was sold at between 214 and 218 dlrs a tonne cif, it said. Reuter 
GUARDIAN ROYAL SEES EXPANSION IN LIFE ASSURANCE

Insurance group Guardian Royal Exchange Plc <GREX.L> said it would expand its life assurance business and push further into European markets, but that U.K. Underwriting losses remained a heavy drag on profits. Earlier, the group had announced sharply increased pre-tax profits of 143.8 mln stg for calendar 1986, versus 3.5 mln the previous year. "We are anxious to develop our life assurance business," group managing director Peter Dugdale told a news conference. "If we have a thrust for the coming years, it is probably best to spend more time on life in the U.K. And abroad," he said. Reuter 
ICO QUOTAS BEFORE OCTOBER UNLIKELY - DELEGATES

The restoration of coffee export quotas before the end of the current 1986/87 coffee year (Oct 1/Sept 30) now seems unlikely, given reluctance by International Coffee Organization, ICO, producers and consumers to resume negotiations on an interim quota accord, producer delegates told reporters. Consumers and most producers see no point in reopening the quota dialogue while Brazil's position remains unchanged, they said. Brazil's refusal to accept a reduction in its previous 30 pct share of the ICO's global export quota effectively torpedoed talks here last month aimed at restoring quotas before October, the delegates noted. Disappointment at the lack of progress on quotas forced coffee futures in London and New York to new lows today, traders here said. Near May in New York fell below one dlr in early trading at around 99.10 cents per pound, traders said. Producer delegates said that while the possibility of reimposing quotas before October remained on the ICO agenda, in practice the idea had effectively been discarded. The ICO's executive board session here this week has so far barely touched on the quota debate, demonstrating general unwillingness to revive talks while chances of success are still remote, producer delegates said. Some producers are in no hurry to see quotas restored, despite the price collapse seen since the failure of last month's negotiations, they said. "With Brazil's frost season approaching, who wants to negotiate quotas," one leading producer delegate said. Coffee prices normally rise during Brazil's frost season (mainly June-August) as dealers and roasters build up stocks as insurance against possible severe frost damage to Brazil's crop. Many producers are more interested in working towards reimposing quotas from October 1, based on a new system of quota allocations valid until the International Coffee Agreement expires in 1989, they said. Guatemala has already proposed the "other oilds" producer group should meet in the next two months to begin talks on how to allocate quota shares. Producers still seem divided on how to overhaul the quota distribution system, with some producer delegates reporting growing support for a radical reallocation, based on the principle of "objective criteria" favoured by consumers. At last month's council session a splinter group of small producers backed consumer demands for new quota shares based on exportable production and stocks, while Brazil, Colombia and the rest of the producers favoured leaving quota allocations unchanged, except for some temporary adjustments. A delegate from one of the eight said more producers now supported their cause. The delegate said unless major producers like Brazil showed readiness to negotiate new quota shares, prospects for a quota accord in October also looked bleak. The U.S. and most other consumers are still determined to make reimposition of quotas conditional on a redistribution of quota shares based on "objective criteria." ICO observers remained sceptical that Brazil would be prepared to accept a quota reduction when the ICO council meets in September. Brazil has adopted a tough stance with banks on external debt negotiations and is likely to be just as tough on coffee, they said. They said Brazil's reluctance to open coffee export registrations might reflect fears this would provoke another price slide and force an emergency ICO council session, which would most likely end in failure. Producers met this afternoon to review the market situation but had only a general discussion about how further negotiations should proceed, a producer delegate said. Producers plan to hold consultations on quotas, and then may set a date for a formal producer meeting, but plans are not fixed, he said. The ICO executive board reconvened at 1650 hours local time to hear a report from consultants on ICO operations. The board meeting looks set to end today, a day earlier than scheduled, delegates said. Reuter 
DOLLAR EUROBONDS END EASIER ON PRIME RATE RISES

The dollar straight sector of the eurobond market ended easier after a subdued day's trading as U.S. Banks began to match yesterday's surprise 1/4 point prime rate hikes by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank, dealers said. The prime rates were raised to 7-3/4 from 7-1/2 pct and the timing of the moves puzzled many dealers. However, reaction here was limited, with shorter dated paper ending steady to 1/4 point easier, while longer dates dipped by 1/4 to 1/2 point. In the primary market, activity again centred on currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, dealers noted. One dollar straight dealer at a U.S. Securities house commented "There was, in fact, the odd retail buyer today, but only in small sizes." He added that, ironically, the prime rate rises may help the market to stabilise since the dollar rose on the back of the news. The only U.S. Dollar deal launched during the day was, as has been the case recently, equity linked. The 15-year convertible bond was for the Bank of Tokyo Ltd and has an indicated coupon of two pct. One source at a house involved in the deal said, "It's got to be a blow-out. With a name like this you're talking about Japan Inc." The lead manager was the Bank of Tokyo International (BOTI) and the deal ended far above the par issue price at 108 109 pct. A BOTI official said "We've had worldwide interest in the deal." She noted the Tokyo stock market had experienced a mild correction at the beginning of the week but that bank stocks were hardly affected. The yen sector edged slightly firmer and one new straight deal was launched, a 20 billion yen bond for France's Caisse Nationale des Telecommunications. The state guaranteed five year bond pays 4-3/8 pct and was priced at 101-1/2 pct. The issue was lead managed by IBJ International Ltd and was quoted on the grey market at less 1-7/8 less 1-3/4 pct compared with the total fees of 1-7/8 pct. One syndicate official at a firm not involved in the deal said "It's tight, but overall I would say its fairly priced." Also launched was a five-year zero coupon bond with a total redemption amount of 19 billion yen for Rural Banking and Finance Corp of New Zealand. It was priced at 81.22 pct and lead managed by Nomura International. In the Australian dollar sector, GMAC (Australia) Finance Ltd issued a 50 mln Australian dlr bond. Hambros Bank Ltd was lead manager for the four-year deal which pays 14-1/4 pct and was priced at 101 pct. It was guranteed by General Motors Acceptance Corp and was quoted on the 1-3/4 pct fees at less 1-3/4 pct bid. McDonalds Corp issued a 75 mln Canadian dlr bond paying 8-1/2 pct over five years and priced at 101-5/8 pct. It was quoted around the 1-7/8 pct fees at less two less 1-3/4 and was led by Morgan Guaranty Ltd. The European Investment Bank launched a 300 mln Danish Crown, seven-year, bond withan 11 pct coupon and pricing of 101 pct. It was lead managed by Den Danske Bank. The floating rate note sector basically ended easier following the increase in period eurodollar deposit rates prompted by the prime rate increases, dealers said. But they noted that mis-match deals - issues whereby the coupon is re-fixed on a monthly basis - were firmer. REUTER 
PROVINSBANKEN INCREASES EURO-CP PROGRAM

A euro-commercial paper program for Provinsbanken A/S of Denmark has been increased to 250 mln dlrs from the original 100 mln, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets said. The program allows the Danish bank to issue euro-certificates of deposit with maturities of up to 365 days. Merrill Lynch will continuue to act as dealer for the program, with Shearson Lehman Brothers International and S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd as co-dealers. REUTER 
LAWSON WANTS STERLING AROUND 1.60 DLRS, 2.90 MKS

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs. He told the National Economic Development Council that the recent Paris meeting of major industrialised nations had agreed on the need for exchange rate stability. There was now a "reasonable alignment of currencies" and the U.K. Government intended to keep sterling at about its present level, he said. That meant around 2.90 marks, which is the single most important rate to concentrate on, and 1.60 dlrs, Lawson said. His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling was highly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said. In the past he has preferred to be less definite about the Government's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreign exchange markets set limits to test. Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum of government, unions and industry, that the pound would be kept near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and intervention in the foreign exchange markets. The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and 2.9210/45 marks. His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling was highly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said. In the past he has preferred to be less definite about the Government's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreign exchange markets set limits to test. Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum of government, unions and industry, that the pound would be kept near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and intervention in the foreign exchange markets. The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and 2.9210/45 marks. Reuter 
BRITISH SUGAR SOWINGS OFF TO SLOW START

Drilling of this year's British sugar beet crop got off to a slow start due to poor weather conditions with only around one pct sown so far, a spokesman for British Sugar Plc said. This compares with two pct at the same stage last year, three pct in 1985 and 38 to 39 pct in 1984. There is little cause for concern with better weather forecast and the capacity available to drill the contracted area of around 200,000 hectares in about 10 days. Seed beds look good and farmers are advised to wait for soil temperatures to rise, the spokesman said. "If the crop can be drilled by the third week in April we will be delighted," he said. Last year a large proportion of the crop was not drilled until May but it still turned out to be the equal second largest on record. Reuter 
ICO TALKS SET TO END WITH NO QUOTA DEBATE

The International Coffee Organization executive board meeting will end tomorrow without any move to reopen the debate on restoring coffee export quotas, delegates said. Talks have focused on administrative matters and verification of stocks in producer countries, they said. Producers met briefly today to exchange views on the market situation but there seems little chance discussion on quotas will begin much before the ICO's annual council session in September, they said. Delegates earlier thought the meeting would end tonight, but a further session is scheduled tomorrow at 1030 GMT to complete reports on stock verification. Meantime, the executive board will meet May 12 to discuss possible action on the consultancy report on the ICO presented today to the board, consumer delegates said. Reuter 
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHT ENQUIRIES

Rio Grande/Azores and Leixoes 26,000 mt hss 14 dlrs basis one to two 4,000/1,500 Azores and 3,500 Leixoes 25/4-5/5. Paranagua/one-two ports Spanish Med 35,000 mt hss 11.50 dlrs basis one to one 10 days all purposes 20-30/4. USG/Taiwan 54,000 mt hss 10,000 shex/4,000 shex 20/4-5/5. USG/ARA-Ghent option Seaforth 40,000/45,000 long tons hss 10 days all purposes 9-15/4 try later. Dieppe/one-two ports Italian Adriatic 9,500/11,000 mt bulk wheat 3,000/2,000 6-12/4. St Lawrence/one-three ports Marseilles-Manfredonia range 20,000/35,000 mt bulk wheat 5,000/222,500 10-15/4. Chimbote/Kaohsiung 9,500 mt bulk/bagged fishmeal 250 ph/200 ph 20/4-5/5. Immingham or Foynes/Red Sea 25,000 mt bulk barley 4,000/3,000 10-15/4 alternatively try t/c. USG/Maracaibo 10,000 mt wheat (three grades) three days/1,000 1-15/4. Reuter 
LONDON METAL FREIGHTS

Rotterdam/Karachi 20,000/21,000 mt shredded scrap 7,000/1,100 15-30/4. Bin Qasim/Shanghai 25,000 mt pig iron 1,500 fhex/1,200 shex 1-10/4. Chungjin/Manila 4,200 mt steel coils 800/liner discharge 23-30/4. Bilbao/one port Vietnam 5,000 mt steels fio 1,000/500 end April Singapore/Mizushima 6,000/10,000 mt steel scrap fiot 1,200/3,00 2-12/4. Reuter 
LONDON ORE ENQUIRIES/FIXTURES

South Africa/Salvador, Brazil 15,000 long tons manganese ore 2,500/1,500 end April. Callao/Crotone 5,000 mt minerals 4,000/2,000 spot. Geraldton/Tampico 13,500 mt bulk mineral sands fio 10,000/2,000 1-10/5. Itea/Dunkirk 20,000 mt bauxite seven days all purposes 10-13/4. Tampico/North Spain 15,000 mt ore two days shinc/3,000 shex 5-25/4. One port German North Sea/USG 10,500 mt bulk ore 2,500/4,000 7-13/4. Reuter 
LONDON SUGAR FREIGHTS

Delfzyl/India 14,700 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/1,000 ppt a/c Benham. Antwerp/Lagos 12,000 mt bagged sugar 750/750 try liner discharge 5-20/4 a/c E D and F Man. T/C single or tweendecker 16,000/19,000 tonnes dw del Queensland mid-April/early-May for trip with bulk sugar redel China duration about 30 to 40 days a/c Kawasaki. One port A-H range/Dubai 6,800 mt bagged sugar 750/750 10-15/4 a/c unnamed charterer. enquiries - Rouen-Hamburg/India 14,000 mt bagged sugar 750/1,000 15-25/4 a/c Woodhouse, Drake and Carey. Flushing/Hodeidah and Mokha 16,800 mt bagged sugar 750/750 9-15/4 Genoc. Santos/Hodeidah 10,000 mt bagged sugar about 30 dlrs 750/750 20-30/4 a/c Dutch charterer. Cargill is reported to have withdrawn its enquiries for cargoes from South Korea to India, from Constanza to India and from Buenaventura to the U.S. Reuter 
TUGS TO ATTEMPT REFLOATING KOREAN BULK CARRIER

Seven tugs will attempt to refloat the South Korean motor bulk carrier Hyundai New World tonight, Lloyds shipping intelligence service said in its latest update. The vessel grounded close to Itaqui port in Brazil last night after undocking from Ponta da Madeira terminal. Lloyds said the 200,000 dwt vessel is carrying about 180,000 tons of ore. Five holds are partially flooded and there is some leakage of bunkers from double bottom tanks. At low water tide the vessel has a list of five degrees to port and the list increases as the tide rises. Reuter 
BRITISH PETROLEUM RAISES NORTH SEA BUTANE PRICES BY 15.50
DLRS A TONNE TODAY



U.K. MONEY RATES HARDEN ON LAWSON CURRENCY TARGETS

Money market rates rates showed a harder edge after news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson has set a target for the pound against the mark and dollar, to be maintained by a mixture of interest rates and intervention in the foreign exchange markets. Dealers said the market was surprised by the Chancellor's disclosure of sterling target rates, around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, and nervous over the implications for domestic interest rates, further reducing the propects for a near term cut in U.K. Bank base rates. The key three months interbank sterling rate gained 1/16 point at 10 9-7/8 pct. The pound opened three basis points lower at 71.3 in trade weighted terms, at around 1.59 dlrs and 2.91 marks. REUTER 
HERTZ REALTY ISSUES 75 MLN CANADIAN DLR EUROBOND

Hertz Realty Corp is issuing a 75 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 30, 1993 paying nine pct and priced at 100-3/4 pct, syndicate sources said. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by Hertz Corp. It is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Canadian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is April 30. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 800 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 800 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills for repurchase by the market will drain some 664 mln stg while bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will take out around 508 mln stg and a rise in note circulation some 45 mln stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, exchequer transactions and bankers' balances above target will add some 380 mln stg and 35 mln stg to the system respectively. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY RATES FIRM ON LAWSON STERLING TARGETS

Interest rates on the London money market were slightly firmer on news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson had stated target rates for sterling against the dollar and mark, dealers said. They said this had come as a surprise and expected the targets, 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, to be promptly tested in the foreign exchange markets. Sterling opened 0.3 points lower in trade weighted terms at 71.3. Dealers noted the chancellor said he would achieve his goals on sterling by a combination of intervention in currency markets and interest rates. Operators feel the foreign exchanges are likely to test sterling on the downside and that this seems to make a fall in U.K. Base lending rates even less likely in the near term, dealers said. The feeling remains in the market, however, that fundamental factors have not really changed and that a rise in U.K. Interest rates is not very likely. The market is expected to continue at around these levels, reflecting the current 10 pct base rate level, for some time. The key three months interbank rate was 1/16 point firmer at 10 9-7/8 pct. 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE TALKS BREAK OFF WITHOUT RESULT

Two days of talks between management and unions to try to end the 3-1/2 month labour dispute at Cargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed crushing plant at Seaforth ended yesterday without resolving the situation, a company spokesman said. Fresh talks are expected to be held early next week but the actual date has not yet been fixed, he added. Oilseed processing at the mill has been at a standstill since December 19 and the company has declared force majeure for deliveries of soymeal and soyoil ahead to May. REUTER 
U.K. GRAIN EXPORTS CONTINUE TO RISE SHARPLY

The U.K. Exported 517,600 tonnes of wheat and 315,800 tonnes of barley in the first 25 days of March, the Home Grown Cereals Authority (HGCA) said, quoting provisional Customs and Excise figures. This brought combined wheat and barley exports since the season started on July 1 to 7.60 mln tonnes, substantially up on the 4.02 mln exported in the same 1985/86 period. This season's total comprises 3.94 mln tonnes of wheat and 3.66 mln barley, compared with 1.63 mln and 2.39 mln, respectively, a year ago. REUTER 
 UK reserves rise underlying 1.785 billion dlrs in March - official



U.K. RESERVES SHOW LARGE UNDERLYING RISE IN MARCH

Britain's gold and currency reserves showed an underlying rise of 1.785 billion dlrs in March after a 287 mln dlr rise in January, the Treasury said. This was considerably above market expectations for a 650 mln dlr rise. The underlying trend, which is a guide to Bank of England operations to support the pound on foreign exchanges, is net of borrowings and repayments. The Treasury declined comment on the figures. Last month it said the Bank of England took the opportunity of strong demand to rebuild reserves after losses last autumn. Actual reserves rose by 1.89 billion dlrs, after rising 305 mln in February, to 22.26 billion. Total reserves were revalued to 27.04 billion dlrs, but would have totalled 24.15 billion under the previous valuation, the Treasury said. Gold reserves were revalued by 895 mln dlrs, while SDRs, ECU and convertible currency holdings were revalued by 1.995 billion. Accruals of borrowings under the exchange cover scheme were 361 mln dlrs last month, after 36 mln in February. Repayments were 240 mln dlrs after the previous 16 mln. Capital repayments totalled 14 mln dlrs, after February's two mln dlrs repayment. REUTER 
TOKYO OPTICAL ISSUES EQUITY WARRANT EUROBOND

Tokyo Optical Co Ltd is issuing a 40 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due April 27, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Daiwa Europe Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Mitsui Bank Ltd and final terms will be set on April 9. The issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The warrants are exercisable from May 19, 1987 until April 9, 1992. The payment date is April 27. REUTER 
KEIHANSHIN REAL ESTATE ISSUES EQUITY WARRANT BOND

Keihanshin Real Estate Co Ltd is issuing a 25 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due April 27, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Daiwa Europe Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Sumitomo Bank Ltd and final terms will be set on April 8. The issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The warrants are exercisable from May 18, 1987 until April 13, 1992. The payment date is April 27. REUTER 
LAWSON REMARKS DASH HOPES OF EARLY U.K. RATE CUT

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's remarks yesterday suggesting there are precise exchange rate targets for the pound undermined sterling, dashing hopes for an early cut in U.K. Base rates, analysts said. But the market's reaction, testing exchange rate levels indicated by Lawson, was probably overdone and the longer term outlook for sterling remained bullish, they agreed. In an apparent break with the previous policy of secrecy, Lawson told a National Economic Development Council meeting he was comfortable with sterling exchange rates around current levels, specifying rates of around 1.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs. Lawson added the U.K. Government intended to keep sterling at about present levels, using currency intervention and interest rates to achieve this. The February 22 Paris agreement of the Group of Five and Canada to stabilise exchange rates is widely believed to include target ranges, but all participants to the meeting had so far refused to specify these. Markets were quick to react to the statement, chopping about one U.S. Cent and over one pfennig off the pound to match the levels mentioned by Lawson. But most analysts polled said they did not believe Lawson's statement signalled a change in U.K. Policy. Keith Skeoch, chief economist at stockbrokers James Capel and Co, said, "the remarks have been blown out of proportion. Lawson is paying now for a little bit of a slip of the tongue." Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Mark Brett said, "there is nothing great and fantastic in the Chancellor's statement." He said he did not believe the rates indicated by the Chancellor were precise targets, but merely represented central rates around which sterling would be allowed to fluctuate, perhaps by as much as 10 pct. "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of an election ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tie himself to a fixed rate," Brett said. Currency markets were keen for official statements to clarify the scope of the Paris accord and reactivate currency trading. This mood easily led to over-reaction, analysts said. "Making similar statements when the market is high strung and ready to bounce is perhaps a mistake," one senior dealer with a U.S. Bank said. Capel's Skeoch said, "it gives the foreign exchange markets something to shoot at." "It is obvious that the government, as a member of the Group of Six, has agreed exchange rate bands. But they are not cut in stone, they can change with time," Skeoch said. Brett said, "we think the 2.90 marks level is a central rate. Give or take 10 pfennigs and all is fine." Not all analysts played down the significance of the remarks, however. Chris Dunn, economist at Royal Bank of Canada, said the remarks may signal a decisive move to insulate sterling from the fortunes of the dollar. Although about two-thirds of Britain's trade is conducted with European countries, sterling has traditionally shadowed the dollar rather than the mark, analysts noted. "Britain must decide whether it wants to follow the U.S. Or throw in its lot with Europe," Dunn said. "It suggests that while the U.K. Is not actually applying to join the European Monetary System, it is seeking protection by shadowing it ... The Bundesbank has made it clear that it wants the U.K. To clarify its position relative to the mark," he said. Analysts said sterling's dip on currency markets following Lawson's remarks made an early half-point cut in U.K. Base rates from current 10 pct levels unlikely in the short term. "Over the next three weeks, a cut is out, unless we get some extremely good economic indicators," Capel's Skeoch said. Base rates have been cut twice by one-half point in March, the last after the March 17 budget presentation, and analysts had been expecting another half point cut shortly afterwards. REUTER 
LUCAS INDUSTRIES ISSUING CONVERTIBLE EUROBOND

Lucas Industries Plc <LUCS.L> said its Lucas Industries Inc unit is issuing a 75 mln dlr convertible eurobond due April 28, 2002 paying an indicated coupon of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 pct and priced at par. The issue is callable at 106 pct declining by one pct per annum to par thereafter but is not callable until 1994 unless the share price reaches 130 pct of the conversion price. There is a put option after seven years which will be priced to give the investor a yield to the put of 7-1/4 to 7-3/4 pct. The issue is guaranteed as to interest and the put premium by Lucas Industries Plc. The issue is being lead managed by J. Henry Schroder Wagg Ltd, which has already formed a group of 19 co-managers. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 dlrs, while the payment is April 27. Lucas said it intended to use the proceeds of the issue for general corporate purposes. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 345 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 345 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with its forecast of a shortage of around 800 mln stg in the system today. The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 58 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 227 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 56 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and four mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. Dealers noted that this was the first time bills in band four, which have a maturity of between two and three months, have been dealt in the market since mid-February. REUTER 
SYRIA SEEKING WHITE SUGAR ON APRIL 8 - TRADE

Syria will hold a buying tender on April 8 for 36,000 tonnes of white sugar for shipment in June, July and August at a rate of 12,000 tonnes a month, traders said. REUTER 
HERTZ REALTY ISSUES 75 MLN CANADIAN DLR EUROBOND

Hertz Realty Corp is issuing a 75 mln Canadian dlr bond due April 30, 1993 paying nine pct and priced at 100-3/4 pct, syndicate sources said. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by Hertz Corp. It is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Canadian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is April 30. REUTER 
LME DETAILS MARCH 1987 TURNOVER

The London Metal Exchange, LME, issued turnovers for March 1987, with figures for corresponding period 1986 in brackets. All in tonnes except Silver which in troy ounces. Copper higher grade nil (2,526,425), Standard cathodes nil (6,325), Grade A 2,429,200 (nil), Standard Copper 17,050 (nil), Lead 443,850 (538,750), Zinc High grade 598,550 (304,825), Silver large 10,350,000 (17,400,000), Small nil (2,000), Aluminium 1,693,375 (1,301,850), Nickel 62,004 (65,040). Cumulative figures for January-March were as follows - Copper higher grade nil (7,703,625), Standard cathodes nil (24,700), Grade A 6,455,525 (nil), Standard Copper 62,075 (nil), Lead 1,567,000 (1,979,750), Zinc High grade 1,746,675 (1,356,400), Silver large 41,770,000 (65,620,000), Small nil (8,000), Aluminium 4,984,650 (4,974,950), Nickel 199,944 (179,328). Reuter 
BFCE ISSUES 17 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Banque Francaise du Commerce Exterieur (BFCE) is issuing a 17 billion yen eurobond due May 11, 1992 with a 4-3/8 pct coupon and priced at 102-3/8 pct, lead manager Nippon Credit International Ltd said. The bonds, guaranteed by the Republic of France, carry a put and call option at par on the interest payment date in 1990. Listing will be in Luxembourg and the bonds will be issued in denominations of one mln yen. Payment date is May 11. Gross fees of 1-7/8 pct comprise 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined and 1-1/4 pct for selling. REUTER 
OTHER MILDS COFFEE PRODUCERS TO MEET MAY 4

Coffee producers belonging to the "Other Milds" group will meet May 4 in Guatemala to discuss the possibility of restoring export quotas, producer delegates told reporters after the closing session of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, executive board meeting. The "Other Milds" group, comprising Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Mexico, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea and Peru, might consult with Brazil and Colombia on this meeting, but it was not certain whether these two countries would attend, they said. The ICO board meeting ended without moves to restart negotiations on quotas, which broke down last month, producer delegates said. Producers are expected to hold other consultations in the coming months on how to proceed with quota negotiations, but no date for a full producer meeting has been mentioned, they said. The board completed reports on stock verification and the next regular board session will be in Indonesia June 1-5, delegates said. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 152 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it had given the money market a further 152 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so far today to 497 mln stg and compares with its forecast of a shortage in the system of around 700 mln stg which it earlier revised down from 800 mln. The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 34 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 39 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 51 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and 28 mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 
HOKKAIDO TAKUSHOKU BANK ISSUES CONVERTIBLE BOND

Hokkaido Takushoku Bank Ltd is issuing a 100 mln dlr convertible eurobond due March 31, 2002 paying an indicated coupon of two pct lead managed by Takugin International, bookrunner Yamaichi International Ltd said. The par-priced issue is callable from 1990 at 104 pct declining by 1/2 pct per annum to par thereafter but is not callable until 1991 unless the share price exceeds the conversion price by 150 pct. Final terms will be fixed on April 9. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The payment date is April 30 and there is a short first coupon. REUTER 
BRITISH TELECOM TO SELL EQUIPMENT IN NORTH AMERICA

British Telecommunications Plc <BTY.L> will market electronic data transmission equipment of its own design in North America, a spokesman said. The spokesman told Reuters the equipment, known as fourth-generation modems, will be sold by <Mitel Datacom Inc>, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Canada's Mitel Corp <MLT.TO>, in which British Telecom has a controlling stake. He declined to comment on the volume of projected sales. He said the modems, already available in Europe where they hold a majority share of the market, were the first of their kind to comply with the latest international standards. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 40 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with around 40 mln stg late assistance. This takes the Bank's total help today to some 537 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a 700 mln stg shortage. REUTER 
CITIBANK SELLS MARK/AUSTRALIAN DLR WARRANTS

Citicorp said that on behalf of its Citibank N.A. Subsidiary, it is issuing 100,000 naked currency warrants priced at 67-1/2 marks each to purchase Australian dlrs for marks at a rate of 1.1825 marks per Australian dlr. The current rate is 1.2850 marks per Australian dlr. Each warrant is for a nominal amount of 1,000 marks and the minimum purchase will be for 100 warrants. The warrants expire on January 8, 1988. Payment is due on April 8 and the warrants will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. REUTER 
BACOB FINANCE ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Bacob Finance NV is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due July 5, 1990 paying 14-3/4 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Goldman Sachs International Corp said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 5 and there will be a long first coupon. The issue is guaranteed by Bacob Savings Bank. REUTER 
PAKISTAN TO TENDER FOR RBD PALM OLEIN TOMORROW

Pakistan will tender tomorrow for 12,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein tomorrow, split in two equal cargo lots for first and second half April shipments, traders said. The tender will be financed with Islamic Development Bank credit. Reuter 
WORLD BANK TO REDEEM EARLY TWO SWISS FRANC BONDS

The World Bank will prepay on July 9, 1987 and July 17, 1987 the total amount outstanding of two Swiss franc public issues, in the first of what could be a series of similar moves in other capital markets, a spokesman for the Bank said in a telephone call from Washington. The prepayments cover 96 mln Swiss francs of 6-1/2 pct Swiss franc bonds of 1976 and due 1991, lead managed by Swiss Bank Corporation and 100 mln Swiss francs of 7-3/8 pct bonds of 1981 and due 1991, lead managed by Credit Suisse. Eugene Rotberg, World Bank vice president-treasurer, said in a prepared statement that the prepayments are being made because of the substantial decline in interest rates over the past two years, the spokesman said. The World Bank intends to exercise early redemption on selected public issues of its securities in Switzerland and other capital markets if the exercise is financially beneficial and consistent with the Bank's overall funding strategy. Last month, Rotberg said that the World Bank planned to bring forward to the first half of 1987 its borrowing plans for the year because of its expectations that world interest rates will rise by the year end. REUTER 
LAWSON SAYS STERLING TARGET COMMENTS INSIGNIFICANT

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson criticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, when he was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound. Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed "Exchange Rate Targets Set" Lawson told journalists "This story is a complete non-event." He criticised the report, which said he was now targetting sterling against the dollar and mark. "Nothing of the sort occurred," Lawson said. Lawson said he had only told National Economic Development Council panel members what the pound's current dollar/mark rates were that day, after saying he was happy with current sterling levels. He said he had told the NEDC, a tripartite forum of government, unions and industry, that the pound would be kept near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and intervention on foreign exchange markets. He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfed with sterling at around its current levels following the Paris accord in February on currency stabilisation. REUTER 
LAWSON SAYS STERLING COMMENTS INSIGNIFICANT

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson criticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, when he was reported as saying he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was, specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound. Holding up a newspaper report on his comments headed "Exchange Rate Targets Set" Lawson told journalists "This story is a complete non-event." He criticised the report, which said he was now targetting sterling against the dollar and mark. "Nothing of the sort occurred," Lawson said. Lawson said he had only told National Economic Development Council panel members what the pound's current dollar/mark rates were that day, after saying he was happy with current sterling levels. He said he had told the NEDC, a tripartite forum of government, unions and industry, that the pound would be kept near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and intervention on foreign exchange markets. He then repeated to the panel that he remained satisfed with sterling at around its current levels following the Paris accord in February on currency stabilisation. Reuter 
EC TO RELEASE MORE UK INTERVENTION FEED WHEAT

The European Community Commission decided today to make available a further 70,000 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat for sale on to the British domestic market, trade sources said here. This will be additional to the 31,000 tonnes remaining after this week's sale of 126,031 tonnes of domestic feed wheat to the home market, British officials said in London. Reuter 
WORLD BANK REFINANCED 500 BILLION YEN OF LOANS

The World Bank over the last month repaid and refinanced 500 billion yen in loans at more favourable interest rates in what was the first step in a plan to refinance its existing debt, Eugene Rotberg, World Bank vice-president/treasurer said. He told Reuters in a telephone interview from Washington that the moves are consistent with, but not driven by, the Bank's view that interest rates have essentially bottomed out and will move higher by year-end. Rotberg was responding to a question following news the Bank would exercise its option to prepay early some 196 mln Swiss francs of existing bonds in the Swiss franc market. The bond redemptions are the first in the public market and may be followed by similar moves in other capital markets if the Bank considers the exercise financially beneficial and consistent with its overall funding strategy. Rotberg noted that the World Bank is very liquid right now, with some 18 billion dlrs in cash available. The Bank will be looking at various instruments and the levels they are trading at in determining what issues will be repaid, he said. However, Rotberg said that unlike the yen loans, there was no immediate plan to refinance the Swiss franc bonds, although the Bank could possibly issue new debt in that market over the next few months. He said that the yen loans, which were the equivalent of some three billion dlrs principal amount, had been from the Japanese long-term credit banks, trust banks and insurance companies and had interest rates of between seven and nine pct. All the borrowings were refinanced as traditional syndicated loans with the same parities at the Japanese long-term prime rate, currently 5.8 pct. The World Bank borrows in excess of 10 billion dlrs a year, with almost all its borrowings in medium and long-term fixed rate markets. Rotberg declined to say whether the 1/4 point rise in U.S. Prime rates yesterday to 7-3/4 pct signalled a reversal in the trend in interest rates. "Over the short term, rates could go up or they could go down," he said, adding that the bank takes a longer view on interest rates when deciding its financing strategy. However, given the current level of interest rates, it would not be wise to take short-term money on to the liability side of the Bank's balance sheet, he said. REUTER 
BRITISH TELECOM <BTY> GIVES CTG TO MITEL <MLT>

British Telecommunications PLC has transferred the information systems division of its wholly owned Canadian subsidiary, CTG Inc, to 51-pct-owned Mitel Corp, Mitel said. It said the transfer was designed to strengthen Mitel's position in the Canadian market. British Telecom acquired 51 pct of Mitel in March, 1986, while CTG became a wholly owned British Telecom subsidiary in May, 1985. Mitel said the transfer of holdings represents a restructuring of British Telecom's private branch exchange (PBX) interests in Canada. It said the CTG unit will become the center of a newly formed Mitel direct sales division, which will sell SX-2000 products to major Canadian business customers. Reuter 
EC FREES MORE U.K. INTERVENTION WHEAT FOR SALE

The EC Cereals Management Committee agreed in Brussels today that 300,000 tonnes of U.K. Intervention wheat would be made available for sale on the U.K. Home market over the next three months, the Ministry of Agriculture said. The committee agreed that 70,000 tonnes of wheat would be made available on April 14 followed by a further 30,000 tonnes later in the month. It also gave an assurance that a further 100,000 tonnes would be allocated for both May and June, which would complete the 300,000 tonnes originally requested by the U.K.. The ministry said sales out of intervention for July and August would be discussed later. Earlier, Paris trade sources said the EC Commission made available a further 70,000 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat for sale to the domestic market. Reuter 
COFFEE PRICES SET TO CONTINUE SLIDE - TRADERS

Coffee prices look set to continue sliding in the near term, given the lack of progress towards a new International Coffee Organization (ICO) export quota accord, according to coffee traders and analysts. Robusta coffee futures dipped sharply to 4-1/2 year lows yesterday at 1,220 stg per tonne, basis the May position, when the lack of new debate on quotas at ICO talks here confirmed expectations that efforts to restore quotas would not be revived at this stage, they said. The 15-day ICO average composite price fell to 99.69 cents a lb for April 1, the lowest for 5-1/2 years. Quotas will not now be renegotiated before the ICO's annual September council session, and in the interim the Brazilian frost season from June to August may prove the only bullish factor to stem further price weakness, they said. Futures bounced back from the lows today towards the previous trading range around 1,260/1,270 stg per tonne on May as the market recovered from yesterday's "confidence blip," one trader commented. But despite today's upturn, the overall trend is for lower prices in the near future, one trade source said. The market had become increasingly vulnerable to yesterday's shakeout, having held within a 1,250/1,350 stg second position trading range for 22 successive sessions, he said. Technically the market is more likely to decline further as it absorbs today's brief rally. Steep declines towards the 1,100/1,050 stg area could foster a "three figure mentality," and speculators may elect to push for coffee prices below the psychological 1,000 stg level, he added. Some traders said today's upturn was in part due to Brazil's opening last night of May green coffee export registrations. This had been widely anticipated by the market and came as no surprise, but it did remove some prevailing uncertainty and light trade buying was seen this morning as a consequence. However, the overall trend remains downwards and a test of support at 1,200 stg should be expected soon, with the only possible supportive influence on the horizon being the approach of Brazil's frost season, they said. Roasters are believed to be well covered, limiting activities to modest hand-to-mouth purchases and generally not taking up producer offers, they added. Central American producers have sold the bulk of their current crops, but robusta producers in West Africa and Indonesia need to sell coffee for April through July shipment, and this could pressure prices further, traders said. However, one dealer, although seeing no reason to be bullish, advised caution. "Everybody's bearish now, just as they were bullish when the market was at 3,100 stg," he said. Arthur Cherry, coffee analyst at E.D. and F. Man, expressed doubts the price spiral would continue much below current levels. "One dlr coffee is catastrophic for many producers -- there must be a minimum below which prices cannot fall." While prices dropped to the lowest levels since September 1982 yesterday, manufacturers have no plans to cut their retail prices. "Its impossible to say, we can't predict anything like that at this stage," a General Foods spokesman said. Manufacturers have lowered prices recently anyway in response to market weakness. At the beginning of March the price of a 100 gram jar of coffee was cut to 1.55 stg from 1.65 stg in Britain. But should coffee market prices continue to fall, the situation would be reviewed, the spokesman added. Nestle also has no plans to make additional price cuts in the near future. "The market seems to have established some equilibrium and doesn't look set to go much lower," a Nestle spokesman commented. Coffee's plunge this week has been mirrored by tea, which fell to a 5-1/2 year low at today's auction at 1.18 stg per kilo for medium quality, traders added. Reuter 
LAWSON SAYS G-7 TO REVIEW PARIS ACCORD NEXT WEEK

The Group of Seven industrialised countries will make use of next week's International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington to evaluate the Paris accord on currency stabilisation, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson told reporters. "On Tuesday I shall be going to Washington for meetings of the (IMF) Interim Committee and Development Committee, and we shall of course be having a meeting of the G-7," Lawson said. "And on the G-7, although there is no formal agenda, I would imagine that the first thing we do would be to review how the Paris accord has gone since it was agreed in February." Lawson said G-7 finance ministers will be reviewing medium-term economic objectives and projections involving domestic and external variables. Also examined will be performance indicators for each country. The Paris accord set objectives for such sectors as growth, inflation, current account and trade balances, budget performances, monetary conditions and exchange rates. Lawson said "At both the G-7 and the Interim Committee we will undoubtedly be discussing the debt problem. Clearly the debt problem is still with us, and still with us in quite a big way." Reuter 
STERLING REBOUNDS ON LAWSON "TARGET"-DENIAL

Sterling made a sharp recovery when U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson described remarks he made yesterday on targets for the pound as "insignificant," rallying back up almost exactly to the levels it had fetched before Lawson spoke yesterday, dealers and analysts said. They said sterling would likely leave the limelight once again to trade quietly around current levels, as the markets set their sights on the dollar, yen and mark again ahead of key international monetary talks in Washington next week. Sterling ended its European day at 1.6020/30 dlrs, virtually unchanged from yesterday's last 1.6040/50 dlrs, fetched before Lawson's first comment. But it was well up on levels just above 1.59 dlrs which it had held until the second comment came. Against the mark, sterling recovered to close at 2.9190/9240 marks after today's opening 2.9040/90 and last night's 2.9210/45. "On balance, it is as if nothing happened ... We are back to where we were before," Mark Brett, economist at securities house Barclays de Zoete Wedd said. "This whole story is like a storm in a teacup," a dealer with a U.K. Bank commented. The pound's recovery was triggered when Lawson criticised media coverage of comments he made yesterday, when he told a conference he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was. In this context, Lawson was reported to have specified rates of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs to the pound in remarks which markets were quick to interpret as a signal to sell sterling. Lawson said today he had merely stated yesterday's approximate value of the pound. "The wrong end of the stick was picked up," he told reporters, adding his comments did in no way signal a change in British exchange rate policies. Dealers and analysts said the reactions to both statements were clear evidence that the market, frustrated by the relative currency stability after the February 22 Paris agreement, was desperate to reactivate trading and would react to any clues offered about the contents of the currency accord. In Paris, finance ministers of the Group of Five and Canada are widely believed to have agreed exchange rate targets, although no participant has specified these in an apparent bid to foster stability by keeping markets guessing. "The markets are absolutely desperate to get clues on Group of Six (countries that are part to the Paris agreement) targets ... The number of rumours flying around is bigger than ever before," said Barclays de Zoete Wedd's Brett. Analysts said neither yesterday's remarks nor today's had changed their impression that after Paris, sterling was targeted to trade in broad ranges against major currencies. All polled analysts said if anything, the 2.90 marks level mentioned by Lawson was probably the centre of a wide 20-pfennig range which sterling would easily hold, helped by good economic indicators and relatively high interest rates. "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of an election ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tie himself to a fixed rate," Brett said. He expected sterling to firm over the next few weeks, to around 2.95 marks and 1.63 dlrs, as overseas investors reappraised high-yielding investments here. Robin Marshall, chief economist at Chase Manhattan Securities, said he was not surprised to see Lawson qualify his sterling target comments so quickly. "His remarks gave markets a target to aim at," he said, adding, "He (Lawson) talked himself into a bit of a corner on this ... It made him a hostage to fortune." Marshall and other analysts dismissed a theory, that by quoting target rates Lawson had attempted to put pressure on prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to agree to British membership of the European Monetary System (EMS), as implausible. Reuter 
LIBYA STILL BOMBING CHAD AIRSTRIP SAY FRENCH

Libyan forces are still bombing the key Ouadi Doum airstrip in northern Chad captured by Chadian troops on March 22, French Defence Minister Andre Giraud said. The bombing was still going on even though Libyan troops had been driven out of most of northern Chad, Giraud told Radio France Internationale in an interview monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation. He added Chad had not asked France to help drive the Libyans out of the north. Chad said yesterday its troops had captured the Libyan outpost of Gouro, some 150 km south of the disputed Aouzou strip in the far north of the central African country. REUTER 
LUCAS INDUSTRIES CONVERTIBLE BOND INCREASED, FIXED

Lucas Industries Inc's convertible eurobond has been increased to 83 mln dlrs from the initial 75 mln dlrs due to strong demand for the deal, lead manager J. Henry Schroder Wagg and Co Ltd said. The coupon has been set at 5-1/4 pct. The conversion price is fixed at 640 pence per share, representing a premium of 11-1/2 pct over yesterday's mid-price close of 574 pence. The seven year put option was priced at 118 pct to give the investor a yield to the put of 7.31 pct. The foreign exchange rate was fixed at 1.6030 U.S. Dlrs to one stg. The borrower is a unit of Lucas Industries Plc <LUCS.L>. REUTER 
BP PLANS CAPITALISATION SHARE ISSUE

British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> said it is proposing a capitalisation share issue of two new ordinary shares for each ordinary share held at the close of business on April 15. The move is subject to the approval of shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting to be held on April 30, it said in a statement. The new shares will not participate in the proposed final dividend for 1986, expected to be paid on May 7. REUTER 
TOYO TRUST ISSUES 100 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Toyo Trust and Banking Co Ltd is issuing a 100 mln dlr convertible eurobond due March 31, 2002 paying an indicated two pct and priced at par, lead manager Toyo Trust International said. The issue is callable after three years at 104 pct declining by 1/2 pct per annum to par thereafter. It is not callable unless the share price exceeds the conversion price by 150 pct. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. Final terms will be fixed on April 10. The payment date is April 30 and there will be a short first coupon period. The issue will be listed in Luxembourg. REUTER 
THATCHER PROSPECTS BOOSTED BY USSR TRIP, POLL SAYS

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has improved her standing with voters, according to the first opinion poll published since her return from the Soviet Union. Thatcher is seeking re-election for a third term and the newspaper said there would now be pressure on her to go for a June or even a May election to capitalise on her Soviet trip. The survey, by the Harris Research Centre for today's London Daily News, said more than half of the 767 voters polled by telephone believed she had improved the prospects of arms reductions and peace while 22 pct said they were more likely to vote for her now than before her visit. The poll was bad news for Labour opposition leader Neil Kinnock. It showed that his popularity had slumped following his trip to Washington last week to explain his anti-nuclear policies. Thirty five pct of those polled said their opinion of him had gone down since the trip and only 13 pct were more in favour of him. In contrast, 46 pct said they were more impressed with Thatcher after her trip to the Soviet Union. Only 14 pct rated her less highly. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 700 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it has forecast a shortage of around 700 mln stg in the system today. Among the main factors, maturing assistance and take-up of treasury bills will drain 546 mln stg, bills for repurchase by the market 76 mln, a rise in note circulation 310 mln and bankers balances below target 105 mln. The outflow will be partly offset by 340 mln stg exchequer transactions. REUTER 
LONDON SUGAR OPENS STEADY BUT QUIET

Raw sugar futures had a quiet opening call of 38 lots with prices holding steady from last night with gains of 20 to 80 cents a tonne, dealers said. Aug was trading at 157.60 dlrs from 157.40 asked yesterday. The modest rise continued the recent rally from an oversold situation but, dealers noted, there was little fresh physicals news to stimulate activity. Whites tenders are scheduled for next Wednesday by Syria for 36,000 tonnes and Greece for 40,000 tonnes while Pakistan is due to tender on April 11 for 100,000 tonnes whites, they said. This week has seen whites buying by India and Egypt. REUTER 
U.K. WHEAT MARKET EASES ON INTERVENTION RELEASE

U.K. Domestic wheat markets dropped about one stg per tonne early this morning following overnight news that the EC is releasing a further 300,000 tonnes of wheat from British intervention stores for the home market over a three month period. April deliveries of denaturable wheat were offered in East Anglia at 124 stg and May at 125 stg per tonne, both one stg down on yesterday's traded rates. The market is expecting U.K. Wheat futures to show a similar loss at today's opening. REUTER 
LONDON COCOA TRADES AT LOWS BY MIDMORNING

Cocoa futures fell to session lows by midmorning, posting losses from last night of six to two stg a tonne in 1987 deliveries, dealers said. Weekend profittaking by jobbers and general book-squaring featured the fall which was aided by steady sterling versus the dollar and lack of offtake in the physicals market. Dealers said the market was switch and straddle-bound, in that any pressure on one particular month was certain to be reflected in adjacent deliveries. The undertone, however, remained cautious as operators await an eventual start to ICCO buffer stock buying, dealers said. The market was originally forecast to open with average five stg gains from last night following New York's firmer close yesterday, dealers said. But this was largely counter-balanced by currency factors. Near July traded at its session low of 1,327 stg after one hour versus 1,333 bid last night and an early high of 1,335. Volume midmorning was 730 lots including 350 lots crossed and 108 switches. There was no sign of any origin activity. REUTER 
LONDON SUGAR TRADES AT SESSION HIGHS BY MIDMORNING

Raw sugar futures firmed to session highs by midmorning, securing gains from last night's basically steady close of 1.00 to 1.80 dlrs a tonne in a 166 lot volume. Shortcovering against an oversold situation continued to play a part in the extended rally with unsettled dollar rates versus sterling providing additional support. Recent and prospective whites buying in the world market was supportive but the raws section lacked feature, dealers said. India and Egypt bought white sugar this week while next week sees tenders by Pakistan, Greece and Syria, they said. May was at 154 dlrs from 152.80 asked last night. All London Daily prices rose two dlrs a tonne on tone. The Raws price was set at 150 dlrs Fob and 173 dlrs (107.50 stg) Cif. The Whites price was at 192 dlrs from 190 yesterday. REUTER 
CLOSURE OF BP SWEDEN REFINERY FORECAST

A Swedish Finance Ministry committee forecast that British Petroleum Plc <BP.L> may have to close its refinery in Gothenburg because of an anticipated worsening of the Swedish petroleum industry's competitiveness. It said in a report that the future of the Swedish refining business was bleak due to the steady drop in domestic oil consumption since the mid-1970s, a possible tightening of rules on sulphur content and competition from Norway's Mongstad facility of <Den Norske Stats Olieselskab> (Statoil) <STAT.OL> when its expansion is completed in the 1990s. The committee said the BP refinery, which lacks a de-sulphurisation plant, was likely to be closed or sold unless costly investments were made to enhance the facility's capacity to refine a broader range of products. But the committee noted that capacity utilisation had in recent years been above that of the European refining industry on average. The BP plant, in which Sweden's state-owned <OK Petroleum AB> has a 22 pct, started up in 1967 and has an annual capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes. There was nobody at British Petroleum immediately available for comment. 
RECENT SUGAR FALL SPARKS SOVIET, CHINESE BUYING

The recent fall in world sugar prices, due to increased producer pricing sales and evidence of export availability, has encouraged renewed buying interest from China and the Soviet Union, London trade house E.D.And F. Man said. Further purchases are expected by the Peoples Republic of China at the lower end of the recent price range, which should limit the downside movement, it said in its latest monthly market report. "And it is believed that the Soviet Union will need to return to the market to take a further 250,000/350,000 tonnes for May/June shipment, Man added. The Soviets purchased five cargoes of raws for April/May shipment towards the end of last month, which brings its total purchases to around 1.65 mln tonnes, Man said. Production estimates for the Thai crop now exceed 2.3 mln tonnes and the final outturn appears set to reach around 2.5 mln tonnes. However, this upturn in the Thai crop is being countered by a reduction in China's production forecast to 5.3 mln tonnes from 5.5 mln estimated earlier. Market participation by Cuba suggests that its crop could be close to last year's 7.3 mln tonnes. But even with similar production Man expects Cuban exports to be significantly down. Cuba was reported to be carrying 1.3 mln tonnes of stocks in September 1985, of which some 440,000 tonnes were used to boost its 1985/86 exports to about 6.9 mln. But as it will not be able to draw on surplus stocks this year, Man estimates Cuba's export availabilty will be reduced to 6.4 to 6.5 mln tonnes. However, Cuba is only one of a large number of exporters with reduced availability, Man said. Since 1980 the total free market export supply has fallen to 18 mln from about 22 mln tonnes. But at the same time free market demand has also fallen by almost the same amount, which has left exporters chasing falling import requirements. A fairly tight balance now appears to have emerged. But the difficult task of keeping production advances at bay still remains, as at least one more season of production deficit is needed to eliminate some of the remaining surplus stocks still overhanging the market, Man said. The increasing cases of record production as a result of record yields and better husbandry have forced sugar producers to strive for greater efficiency. As this increase in efficiency reduces the marginal cost of production, sugar exporters may become more responsive to prices and in particular to upward price movements, Man said. Commenting on the current row between the EC Commission and sugar producers, Man said despite the recent improvement in the level of restitutions, they are still insufficient to fully compensate producers when exporting on the world market. Unless there are further improvements, at least some sugar is expected to remain in intervention, it added. REUTER 
GEC WINS ROBOTS ORDER FROM USSR

The General Electric Co Plc <GECL.L> said its Electrical Projects division had won an initial 2.5 mln stg order to supply robots to the Soviet motor industry. Eighteen paint-spraying robots will be installed at the Gaz truck and car plant in Gorky, GEC said in a statement. If the factory standardised on the GEC product, further orders for up to 80 more robots could be expected, it added. Division engineering director Alan Davies said he expects further agreements soon with the Soviet machine tool and chemical equipment industries. These would cover the part manufacture of 100 to 200 GEC robots per year in the USSR. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED UPWARD

The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's shortfall to 750 mln stg from 700 mln. REUTER 
INDIA BUYS VEGETABLE OILS, PAKISTAN TO RETENDER

The Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought 20,000 tonnes of optional origin soybean oil and 6,000 tonnes of rbd palm olein at its import tender yesterday, traders said. Pakistan, however, rejected offers at its tender for 12,000 tonnes of rbd palm oil, but is expected to reenter the market next week, they said. The STC soyoil purchase was for May 20/Jun 20 shipment at 319 dlrs per tonne cif and the palm olein for Apr 25/May 25 shipment at 355 dlrs per tonne. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 170 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it has operated in the money market this morning, purchasing 170 mln stg bank bills. This compares with the Bank's revised estimate of a 750 mln stg shortfall. In band two the Bank bought 72 mln stg at 9-13/16 pct, in band three 52 mln at 9-3/4 pct and in band four 46 mln at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 
LONDON GRAINS SEES WHEAT RECOVER FROM LOWS

U.K. Physical wheat values recovered from initial losses of one to two stg per tonne caused by overnight news of the release of an additional 300,000 tonnes of intervention feed wheat for U.K. Weekly home market tenders. Consumer buyers were attracted by the cheaper offers, traders said, and by early afternoon the market had recovered to one stg down to unchanged. U.K. Wheat futures also rallied to end the morning unchanged to 0.05 stg easier. In East Anglia, April deliveries of feed wheat traded at 123 and May at 124 but were subsequently bid one stg a tonne The market for denaturable wheat in Liverpool held comparatively steady with sellers holding back due to uncertain conditions. April deliveries made 127.50 and June 129.50 stg per tonne, basis Liverpool. The fob market for wheat started easier but here again selling pressure lifted around midday. Apr/Jun shipments traded fob east coast at 123 stg per tonne. This compared with 124 paid for April yesterday and 125 for May/June. REUTER 
TOP DISCOUNT RATE AT UK BILL TENDER RISES TO 9.5261 PCT



TOP DISCOUNT RATE AT UK BILL TENDER 9.5261 PCT

The top accepted rate of discount at the weekly U.K. Treasury bill tender rose to 9.5261 pct from 9.3456 pct last week. Applications at the lowest accepted price of 97.625 stg were allotted around 81 pct of the amount applied for, and applications above that price were allotted in full, the Bank of England said. A total of 100 mln stg of Treasury bills was offered for sale this week. Last week, the average rate of discount was 9.3157 pct. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FURTHER REVISED UPWARD

The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's shortfall to 800 mln stg from 750 mln, before taking account of 170 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 347 MLN STG AFTERNOON HELP

The Bank of England said it has operated in the money market this afternoon, buying back bills totalling 347 mln stg. This brings the total help so far today to 517 mln stg and compares with the Bank's revised estimate of an 800 mln stg shortfall. The central bank purchased in band one 20 mln stg at 9-7/8 pct, in band two 254 mln at 9-13/16 pct, in band three 66 mln at 9-3/4 pct and in band four seven mln stg at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 
THATCHER PROSPECTS BOOSTED BY USSR TRIP, POLL SAYS

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has improved her standing with voters, according to the first opinion poll published since her return from the Soviet Union. Thatcher is seeking re-election for a third term and the newspaper said there would now be pressure on her to go for a June or even a May election to capitalise on her Soviet trip. The survey, by the Harris Research Centre for today's London Daily News, said more than half of the 767 voters polled by telephone believed she had improved the prospects of arms reductions and peace while 22 pct said they were more likely to vote for her now than before her visit. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET RECEIVES 205 MLN STG LATE HELP

The Bank of England said it has provided around 205 mln stg late assistance to the market, bringing the total help today to 722 mln which compares with the Bank's revised deficit forecast of 800 mln stg. REUTER 
FINAL TERMS SET ON BELL GROUP CONVERTIBLE

The conversion price on the 175 mln Australian dlr convertible eurobond for Bell Group NV has been set at 13.37 Australian dlrs per share, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. The 10-year bond, which pays 10 pct and is priced at par, is guaranteed by the parent company Bell Group Ltd whose shares closed in Australia today at 10.70 Australian dlrs. The conversion premium is 24.95 pct. REUTER 
AVERAGE DISCOUNT RATE AT UK BILL TENDER 9.5195 PCT

The average rate of discount at today's U.K. Treasury bill tender rose to 9.5195 pct from 9.3157 pct last week, the Bank of England said. This week's 100 mln stg offer of 91-day bills met applications of 327 mln stg, the bank said. Applications for bills dated Monday to Friday at the top accepted rate of discount of 9.5261 pct were allotted about 81 pct. Next week 100 mln stg of Treasury bills will be offered, replacing 100 mln stg of maturities. REUTER 
ABNORMAL RADIATION FOUND IN SOVIET TEA/HAZELNUTS

Abnormally high levels of radiation were found in Soviet tea and hazelnuts more than nine months after the Chernobyl nuclear accident, West German residents in Moscow were advised this week. In a letter to the West German community here, Ambassador Joerg Kastl said laboratory tests on food samples bought in Moscow in February had shown elevated levels of caesium-134 and -137 in tea from Azerbaijan and Ukrainian hazelnuts. Other food samples sent for testing at Cologne University, including honey, fruit, vegetables, pork, milk and butter, were found to be free of radiation, it said. Data in the letter showed the tea and hazelnuts contained caesium levels far in excess of ceilings recommended by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). The letter said people who had consumed the tea faced no particular health danger as most of the caesium remained in the tea leaves, but it warned against eating the hazelnuts. The products sent for testing were bought in state shops and private farmers' markets in Moscow, it added. Other Western embassies in Moscow said they had discontinued laboratory testing of Soviet food late last year because no abnormal radiation levels were detected. "We didn't find anything so we stopped doing it," a U.S. Embassy spokesman said. A British spokesman said radiation-monitoring equipment remained in the embassy waiting room for British residents in Moscow who wanted to check their food, but laboratory tests had not been conducted for several months. "Earlier we sent some food back to Britain as a precautionary measure, but we stopped in the absence of any alarming signals," he said. "If the tests had shown abnormal readings, they would have been resumed." Reuter 
BP SAYS NO PLANS TO CLOSE SWEDISH REFINERY

The British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> said it had no plans to close its refinery in Gothenburg, despite forecasts by a Swedish finance ministry committee that it might be planning such a move. The committee said the refinery's future looked bleak because the Swedish petroleum industry's competitiveness was expected to worsen unless it invested, and because of the effects of a possible tightening of rules on sulphur content. But BP said the unit, in which Sweden's <OK Petroleum AB> has a 22 pct stake, had performed well both technically and financially up to and including the first quarter of 1987. Current restrictions on sulphur emissions and known future plans for both Sweden and export markets did not cause it any serious problems, it said in a statement. The refinery started up in 1967 and has an annual capacity of 4.7 mln tonnes. REUTER 
EC WHEAT RELEASE UNLIKELY TO SATISFY U.K. DEMAND

The European Commission's decision to release an additional 300,000 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat for the home market will provide only moderate relief in an increasingly tight market, traders said. Some operators had been anticipating a larger tonnage, pointing out that at this week's U.K. Intervention tender the market sought to buy 340,000 tonnes but only 126,000 tonnes were granted. The new tranche of intervention grain is unlikely to satisfy demand, they said, and keen buying competition for supplies in stores is expected to keep prices firm. The release of the feed wheat followed recent strong representations by the U.K. Grain trade to the Commission. There has been growing concern that rising internal prices, triggered by heavy exports, were creating areas of shortage in interior markets. The latest EC authorisation will add 70,000 tonnes at the April 14 tender and a further 30,000 tonnes later in the month. The remaining 200,000 tonnes will be made available in May and June. News of the release produced an early downward reaction in local physical markets, but by midday some sections had halved early two stg losses while others were unchanged. Ministry of Agriculture figures for March indicate 1.85 mln tonnes of wheat and 1.74 mln tonnes of barley remain in the free market. However, some traders believe these figures are overstated and, while some may still be held on the farm, the bulk of wheat is already sold. Some of the grain is also off the market in futures stores. A total of 2.10 mln tonnes of intervention wheat has been sold for export or to the home market since the season started July 1, leaving an unsold balance in intervention of about 1.59 mln tonnes. Intervention barley sales have reached just over 1.0 mln tonnes, leaving about 753,000 tonnes, traders said. This season's U.K. Export performance has surpassed all early expectations and has created the present nervous situation in domestic markets where the fear now is free market supplies may not last out until new crop becomes available in August. The market is sticking to its recent prediction of total barley and wheat exports of around 10.5 mln tonnes, a new record and nearly double the previous record of 5.9 mln tonnes achieved in the 1984/85 season. Traders expect U.K. Wheat exports to reach 6.0 mln and barley around 4.50 mln tonnes. The Soviet Union has booked a record total of 2.5 mln tonnes of British wheat and barley this season, but only 1.28 mln had surfaced in Customs export figures by March 25, traders said. Other EC countries have bought large amounts of British grain and for the July 1/March 25 period had taken 2.59 mln tonnes of wheat and 2.06 mln tonnes of barley. This compares with 1.28 mln and 868,700 tonnes last season. The market is expecting prices, particularly wheat, to stay buoyant for the remaining few months of the season. If supplies become more difficult and prices strengthen further, feed compounders may increase cereal substitute usage, traders said. Reuter 
CHILE, CHINA TO ESTABLISH PEKING COPPER PLANT

The Chilean state copper corporation, Codelco, the privately-owned Chilean copper fabricator Madeco and Chinese interests are to establish a copper tube plant in Peking, Codelco's U.K. Subsidiary Chile Copper Ltd said. The plant is designed to produce 5,000 tonnes in the first five years and 8,000 tonnes as from year six. Total investment is estimated at 10 mln dlrs, of which the Chileans will contribute two mln. Codelco and Madeco have formed the Chilean Wrought Copper Company to take a 50 pct stake in a new company called Peking Santiago Tube Company with the Chinese holding the other half. Reuter 
BRITAIN'S ECGD DISCUSSING NEW COVER FOR NIGERIA

Britain's Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) is holding talks with Nigeria aimed at resuming insurance cover for British exporters to Nigeria, the head of ECGD's international debt division, Gerry Breach, said. The ECGD suspended cover on Nigeria in 1984 after the country fell into arrears on payments of insured and uninsured debts. Following last week's bilateral accord between Britain and Nigeria to reschedule the country's insured trade debts, bankers had hoped that talks would commence on a resumption of cover. Breach made his comments in an address to a private meeting of businessmen, a copy of which was made available to the press. Breach noted that for the ECGD to consider "a gradual introduction of a package of new support" certain criteria would have to be met. This would involve the Nigerian economic structural adjustment program being put into effect and being endorsed by the International Monetary Fund, the program remaining on course and continuing to be endorsed by the IMF and a satisfactory level of acceptance by the Nigerian government of the ECGD insured short-term trade arrears. Breach said that these criteria are now beginning to be satisfied, adding that while the ECGD could not yet formally announce new cover, it was holding discussions with Nigeria on priorities for new credits. He said an announcement would be made "as soon as possible" on an agreement and the ECGD would create a package for Nigeria that would include the department's normal range of export trade support facilities. British exports to Nigeria exceeded 550 mln stg in 1986. Breach noted that since cover was removed, the ECGD has maintained a limited amount of short-term trade cover for Nigeria, which was backed by letters of credit from the Nigerian Central Bank. While the ECGD would initially continue to use this structure under a new package, it would also hope to expand the volume of coverage in the short-term area and relax the terms it is prepared to underwrite towards the commonly accepted maximum of 180 days. REUTER 
BRITAIN'S ECGD DISCUSSING NEW COVER FOR NIGERIA

Britain's Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) is holding talks with Nigeria aimed at resuming insurance cover for British exporters to Nigeria, the head of ECGD's international debt division, Gerry Breach, said. The ECGD suspended cover on Nigeria in 1984 after the country fell into arrears on payments of insured and uninsured debts. Following last week's bilateral accord between Britain and Nigeria to reschedule the country's insured trade debts, bankers had hoped that talks would commence on a resumption of cover. Breach told a businessmen's meeting that for the ECGD to consider "a gradual introduction of a package of new support" certain criteria would have to be met. This would involve the Nigerian economic structural adjustment program being put into effect and being endorsed by the International Monetary Fund, the program remaining on course and continuing to be endorsed by the IMF and a satisfactory level of acceptance by the Nigerian government of the ECGD insured short-term trade arrears. British exports to Nigeria exceeded 550 mln stg in 1986. Reuter 
BP CREDIT FACILITY SUBSTANTIALLY OVERSUBSCRIBED

A five billion dlr credit facility being arranged for two units of British Petroleum Co Plc <BP.L> attracted over 15 billion dlrs in syndication but will not be increased, Morgan Guaranty Ltd said on behalf of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York, the arranger. It said that 64 of BP's relationship banks will be joining the facility, although their participations will be cut back dramatically. Banks had been invited as lead managers at 200 mln dlrs, managers at 125 mln and co-managers at 75 mln. BP will make the final decision on the allotments broadly based on relationships rather than on the amounts offered. The facility is being arranged for BP International and BP North America in conjunction with the company's planned tender offer for the 45 pct of Standard Oil Co it does not already own. Because of the purpose of the facility, Morgan only had five business days to arrange the facility. As a result, it carried terms that bankers considered relatively favourable when compared with those on most other recent credits. The facility fee, for example, was 1/8 pct compared with the 1/16 pct BP paid on a recent 1.5 billion dlr refinancing. REUTER 
LAWSON SAYS U.K. ELECTION NOT ONLY EMS BAR

British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the next U.K. Election was not the only element standing in the way of full British membership of the European Monetary System (EMS). But he added that arguments against joining had weakened. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, widely believed to be the strongest government opponent of full EMS membership, has made clear she does not expect to consider joining until after the next UK election, due by mid-1988 at the latest. But Lawson, in answer to a question, told reporters after an informal European Community finance ministers' meeting here that other factors apart from the upcoming election stood in the way of full membership. In addition to the question of the exchange rates at which Britain should enter the EMS's core exchange rate mechanism, there was also the impact of sterling membership on the system to be considered, he said. British entry would change the EMS from a monopolar system based on the West German mark to a bipolar mark-sterling system, he noted. "We have to make sure it would work." But Lawson added that some of the considerations that had made it difficult for Britain to join in the past now posed less of a problem. As an example he cited sterling's role as a petrocurrency, which he said was diminishing. "That argument has clearly weakened," he said. Lawson restated that the government was keeping the question of membership under review. REUTER 
BARCLAYS DE ZOETE WEDD SETS UP AMSTERDAM OFFICE

British securities house <Barclays de Zoete Wedd>, BZW, said it would open today a subsidiary office in Amsterdam, its first office in continental Europe. BZW, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Barclays Plc <BCS.L>, said in a statement the new company had been built on the parent company's former Dutch subsidiary, Barclays Kol. The new company, <Barclays de Zoete Wedd Nederland NV>, will focus on trading in both Dutch and international equities and will develop a full range of investment banking services. It will initially employ 29, aiming to increase numbers to 35 by the year-end, it said. BZW said its parent Barclays Bank had subsidiary companies active on the stock exchanges of Zurich, Milan and Paris which BZW planned to use to strengthen its presence in continental Europe. Commenting on the move, BZW chairman Sir Martin Jacombe said while international deregulation had turned London, New York and Tokyo into "pivotal points for trading across time zones, firms like BZW that seek to serve the world-wide financial community must have a presence in Europe, not just in the U.K." BZW currently employs some 2,000 staff in its offices in Britain, Hong Kong, Tokyo, New York and Sydney. REUTER 
BRITISH OPINION POLLS CONFIRM THATCHER LEAD

Public opinion polls showing a surge in support for British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher following her trip to Moscow have raised the possibility she will call a spring election, political analysts said. A poll in today's Daily Express showed 39 pct support for the ruling Conservative party, 30 pct for the Alliance of Liberals and Social Democrats and 29 pct for the Labour party. Reproduced in a general election, the result would give Thatcher an overall parliamentary majority of 22. A poll in yesterday's Sunday Times gave the Conservatives 41 pct support, 12 percentage points ahead of both opposition groups -- their biggest lead in three-and-a-half years. Conservative sources have said Thatcher would prefer a series of polls giving her party over 40 pct of the vote, securing it a clear parliamentary majority, before announcing the date for the next election. Lord Whitelaw, Conservative leader in the House of Lords and one of Thatcher's closest advisors, yesterday ruled out a May general election, but left open the choices of June and early autumn. The Sunday Times poll, taken during Thatcher's visit to Moscow last week, was the first to show the party breaking through 40 pct. The Express poll was the first since Thatcher's trip to Moscow, hailed as a triumph by the British media. It confirmed a number of recent surveys suggesting that the Alliance had overtaken Labour. Thatcher, currently serving her second consecutive term of office, does not have to call elections until June 1988 but is widely expected to do so within the next six months. REUTER 
U.K. RETAIL SALES RISE FINAL 2.21 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The volume of U.K. Retail sales rose a final, seasonally adjusted 2.21 pct in February after falling a final 2.16 pct in January, Department of Trade and Industry figures show. The February all-retailers sales index, base 1980, was put at a final 125.0 after 122.3 in January. In the three months from December 1986 to February 1987, the level of sales was unchanged from the previous three months but was up by almost 6.0 pct from the same 1985/86 period. On a non-seasonally adjusted basis, retail sales in February were 9.0 pct higher than a year earlier, the Department said. REUTER 
INDIUM CORP RAISES PRODUCER LIST PRICE

Indium Corp of America said it has raised its list price for indium ingots, minimum 99.97 pct, to 4.50 dlrs per troy ounce from 3.95 dlrs, effective immediately. Traders said the rise was based on continuing strong consumer demand in the United States and Japan. Free market price ideas rose this morning to a nominal range of 135 to 145 dlrs per kilo, the highest level for about five years, compared with 125/132 dlrs on Friday, dealers said. REUTER 
U.K. CREDIT BUSINESS RISES IN FEBRUARY

New credit advanced by finance houses, retailers, bank credit cards and other specialist providers of credit rose to 2.95 billion stg in February from 2.70 billion in Janaury, when bad weather had a depressing effect, the Department of Trade and Industry said. Of the February total, 1.28 billion stg was advanced on bank credit cards. On a three-month basis, total advances in December to February were 2.0 pct higher than in the previous three months. Within this total, lending to consumers rose by 1.0 pct and lending to businesses declined by 4.0 pct. At end February the total amount outstanding was 24.5 billion stg, up from January's 24.1 billion stg and 4.0 pct above the total three months earlier, the Department said. February saw a rise of 400 mln stg in amounts outstanding to finance houses, other specialist credit grantors and retailers and on bank credit cards between end-January and end-February. The Department said advances on bank credit cards rose by 4.0 pct between the two latest three month periods. Retailers advanced three pct less in the latest three months than in the previous three months, it said. REUTER 
IRAN REPORTS IMPORTANT VICTORIES ON SOUTHERN FRONT

Iran said it had achieved important victories against Iraq on the southern war fronts last night. A brief Iranian news agency IRNA report said "Important victories achieved in southern fronts Monday night." It gave no further details. Iran launched a major offensive, codenamed Karbala-5, towards the major southern Iraqi port of Basra in January, but there have been no reports of heavy fighting in the area in recent weeks. REUTER 
FINAL TERMS SET ON K-O-P WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 100 mln dlr warrant bond for Kansallis-osake-Pankki (K-o-P) has been set at 4-5/8 pct compared with the indicated range of 4-1/8 to 4-5/8 pct, lead manager Morgan Stanley International said. Each 1,000 dlr bond has ten warrants attached which are exercisable into K-o-P free shares at 50 Finnish markka per share. The foreign exchange rate on the seven year bond was set at 4.4450 markka to the dollar. REUTER 
BRITISH OPNION POLLS KEEP CONSERVATIVES AHEAD

Two British opinion polls showed the ruling Conservative Party would retain power with a clear majority in general elections. A poll for commercial television, conducted after Prime Minister Thatcher returned from Moscow, this morning gave the Conservatives their highest rating since they were re-elected in 1983, with 43 pct of the votes, Labour 30 and the Social Democratic-Liberal Alliance 26 pct. Another poll in the Times newspaper taken in 73 key marginal constituencies, predicted a Conservative majority of 92 seats. Thatcher, does not have to call elections until June 1988. REUTER 
ZENCHIKU ISSUES 40 MLN DLR EQUITY WARRANT BOND

Zenchiku Co Ltd is issuing a 40 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due April 30, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Daiwa Europe Ltd said. Final terms will be fixed on April 13 and the non-callable issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs. It is guaranteed by Mitsui Bank Ltd. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The payment date is April 30 and the issue will be listed in Luxembourg. The warrants are exercisable from May 18, 1987 until April 10, 1992. REUTER 
COCOA BUFFER STOCK MAY FACE UPHILL BATTLE - TRADE

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock could face an uphill battle to halt the downtrend in world cocoa prices when it begins buying operations in the next few weeks, cocoa traders said. Traders said they believed buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000 tonnes in a matter of weeks without lifting prices significantly, given the amount of surplus cocoa overhanging the market. The buffer stock may begin buying shortly as the ICCO 10 day average indicator price is now at 1,578.03 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) per tonne, below the 1,600 "must buy" level. Rules governing buffer stock operations were agreed last month by the ICCO council. Buying will begin once the buffer stock manager has completed preparations, traders said. Some traders said the buffer stock manager may delay buffer stock buying until mid or end-April when changes in months used to calculate the ICCO indicator may lift the 10 day average above the 1,600 SDR "must buy" level. The ICCO indicator price is calculated from the average of the second, third and fourth positions on the London and New York futures markets. The daily price was 1,577.61 SDR per tonne yesterday. Months used currently for the indicator are May, July and September, but these are set to change to July, September and December on April 15, prior to May becoming the New York spot month, traders noted. The introduction of December into the calculations may lift the daily SDR price as December is currently quoted about 75 stg above May on the London terminal market. But the buffer stock manager would have to wait for the higher daily price to feed through into the 10-day average, the indicator which governs his activities, traders said. "The buffer stock manager is obviously looking at the implications of delaying until forward prices lift the indicator since it might mean he has to buy less cocoa," an analyst from a leading cocoa trade house said. Traders said the buffer stock purchases could reach 75,000 tonnes fairly quickly once buying starts. If purchases reach this level within six months, buying is suspended pending an ICCO council review of price ranges. But some cocoa market watchers said the buffer stock may benefit from recent forecasts for a poor Brazilian Bahia temporao crop at 1.5 mln to two mln 60 kilo bags against initial expectations of up to three mln. A lower than expected Brazilian crop may cut the 1986/87 world surplus to between 50,000 and 70,000 tonnes, compared with a recent forecast by the ICCO statistics committee of 94,000 tonnes, traders said. In these circumstances, the buffer stock may only need to buy between 20,000 and 30,000 tonnes to lift prices above the "must buy" level. But some dealers said the ICCO buffer stock rules may put constraints on how quickly and effectively the buffer stock manager can remove cocoa from the market. The buffer stock system of price differentials set according to quality and a 15 pct limit on purchases from non-members could limit the buffer stock's scope for action, dealers said. Most of the cocoa readily available to the buffer stock is nearby in-store material of Malaysian and Ivory Coast origin. But the buffer stock can only buy 15 pct Malaysian cocoa as Malaysia is not an ICCO member, while purchases of nearby cocoa can only reach 40 pct in any one day, which forces the buffer stock to buy some intermediate and forward shipment material. Limits on buffer stock purchases of nearby and non-member cocoa will reduce the impact on terminal prices which are pressured by the overhang of Malaysian material, traders said. Buffer stock purchases of forward shipment cocoa from quality producers such as Ghana will have only a limited impact on futures, but is likely to widen physical market premiums for this cocoa over futures. Ghana's premium to the terminal has risen to about 50 stg from 25 to 30 stg a month ago partly in anticipation of buffer stock buying, dealers said. "The buffer stock may not help the terminal market, but will provide a backstop for quality cocoas," one trader said. Traders cautioned that views on the impact of the buffer stock were "all prognostication" and that no one could hope to predict accurately what the result would be. Psychologically buffer stock buying should help prices, but since the buffer stock already holds a carryover of 100,000 tonnes from the previous cocoa agreement and the market is in surplus, dealers expressed doubts purchases can counter bearish pressure. In June the ICCO is due to discuss rules for a withholding scheme as an additional market support mechanism. REUTER 
SHOWA ALUMINIUM ISSUES 100 MLN DLR WARRANT BOND

Showa Aluminium Corp is issuing a 100 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due April 23, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. Final terms will be fixed on April 15. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is April 23. REUTER 
NIPPON SHOKUBAI ISSUES 80 MLN DLR WARRANT BOND

Nippon Shokubai Kagaku Kogyo is issuing a 80 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due April 30, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. Final terms will be fixed on April 14 and the issue is guaranteed by Daiwa Bank Ltd. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is April 30 and the warrants are exercisable from May 14, 1987 until April 23, 1992. REUTER 
GENFINANCE LUXEMBOURG ISSUES 50 MLN STG EUROBOND

Genfinance Luxembourg is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due May 7, 1994 paying 9-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead manager Kleinwort, Benson Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed on a subordinated basis by Generale Bank. It is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 7. REUTER 
BRITISH OPNION POLLS KEEP CONSERVATIVES AHEAD

Two British opinion polls showed the ruling Conservative Party would retain power with a clear majority in general elections. A poll for commercial television, conducted after Prime Minister Thatcher returned from Moscow, this morning gave the Conservatives their highest rating since they were re-elected in 1983, with 43 pct of the votes, Labour 30 and the Social Democratic-Liberal Alliance 26 pct. Another poll in the Times newspaper taken in 73 key marginal constituencies, predicted a Conservative majority of 92 seats. Thatcher, does not have to call elections until June 1988. REUTER 
LONDON SOFT FUTURES ADOPT NEW CLEARING PROCEDURES

London's soft futures markets, namely cocoa, coffee and sugar, are adopting with immediate effect a uniform presentation on their respective open positions referring to previous day's trading figures, a spokeswoman for the London Commodity Exchange (LCE) said. The figures represent total clients' long positions as well as short positions, plus the net house positions as submitted by all members for each delivery month, she said. As a result, figures will differ from those previously published but are hoped to be more accurate and to compare more favourably with other international markets, she added. Since the introduction of a revised clearing procedure last October, which incorporated a system of "mark-to-market', figures as published bore little relationship to the true open position, the spokeswoman said. The open position for business done up to the previous trading day is prepared daily by the International Commodity Clearing House (ICCH) and then posted on the various market notice boards. REUTER 
BRITISH OPINION POLLS KEEP CONSERVATIVES AHEAD

Two British opinion polls showed the ruling Conservative Party would retain power with a clear majority in general elections. A poll for commercial television, conducted after Prime Minister Thatcher returned from Moscow, this morning gave the Conservatives their highest rating since they were re-elected in 1983, with 43 pct of the votes, Labour 30 and the Social Democratic-Liberal Alliance 26 pct. Another poll in the Times newspaper taken in 73 key marginal constituencies, predicted a Conservative majority of 92 seats. Thatcher does not have to call elections until June 1988. Reuter 
BP SCOTTISH REFINERY SET TO RESTART THIS WEEK

The British Petroleum <BP.L> Co Plc's refinery at Grangemouth, Scotland, shut down after an explosion and fire in the hydrocracker on March 22, will probably be back in operation towards the week-end, a refinery spokesman said. He said the refinery will resume at about half its 178,500 barrels per day (bpd) capacity, as work on overhauling the North Side of the complex, which began at the end of January, will not be completed before the end of April. He said the refinery had been closed for longer than originally expected due to the lengthy safety checks being carried out prior to restarting. The explosion and fire, in which one worker was killed, caused extensive damage to the central part of the 32,000 hydrocracker and the spokesman said today this unit would be out of operation for several months. The remainder of the refinery, including the 19,000 catalytic cracker, was undamaged. He said inquiries into the accident, which happened while the hydrocracker was not in operation, were continuing. In an earlier incident, two people were killed in an explosion and fire at the refinery on March 13. REUTER 
U.K. INTERVENTION WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET

A total of 14,685 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat were sold at today's tender for the home market, the Home Grown Cereals Authority said. Bids amounted to 19,115 tonnes against offerings of 31,528. Prices paid were at, or above, the prevailing intervention feed wheat price of 120.71 stg per tonne. Grain traders said a large part of the tonnage on offer was in stores, which would mean high transport costs to deficient areas. The European Commission recently made available 70,000 tonnes for next week's tender. Reuter 
BNL UNIT ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

A unit of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due May 12, 1992 paying 4-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, market sources said. The joint bookrunners are Tokai International and Daiwa Europe Ltd. The formal name of the borrower is Banca Nazionale del Lavoro (London Branch) (Through the Law Debenture Corporation Plc). The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 11 and there will be a long first coupon period. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 284 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with a further 284 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the bank's total help so far today to 508 mln stg and compares with its revised estimate of a 900 mln stg shortage in the system which it earlier revised up from 850 mln. The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 100 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, 56 mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 112 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and 16 mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 
CARGILL U.K. STRIKE ENDS

Cargill U.K. Ltd's oilseed processing plant in Seaforth, northwest England, will resume operations tomorrow morning following settlement of a labour dispute which has paralysed production there since December 19, a company spokesman said. It is likely to resume deliveries of soymeal and oil within a couple of days. Force majeure had previously been declared for supplies up to, and including May, but the company will attempt to fulfill all outstanding contracts, the spokesman said. Reuter 
BRIERLEY UNIT ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Brierley Investments Overseas NV is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due April 30, 1992 paying 8-1/4 pct and priced at par, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The issue is guaranteed by Brierley Investments Ltd. Payment date is April 30. REUTER 
BELGIUM LAUNCHING UNLIMITED EURO-CP PROGRAM

Belgium is launching a euro-commercial paper program for an unlimited amount, with the issue planned immediately after signing in mid-May, First Chicago Ltd said as arranger. Dealers will be Chase Investment Bank Ltd, Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd, Salomon Brothers International Ltd, Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd and First Chicago. Issuing and paying agent is First Chicago Clearing Centre. Paper will be issued in minimum denominations of 500,000 dlrs with maturities of up to 365 days. There will be a multi-currency option. REUTER 
THATCHER FIRM AS PRESSURE MOUNTS FOR ELECTIONS

As pressure mounted on British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to call a June election, she said today that the decision on when to go to the county was hers and hers alone. She was speaking to parliament after senior members of the ruling Conservative Party urged her to call elections due in June 1988 a year early in the wake of two more opinion polls giving her party a commanding lead. Asked by a Conservative back-bencher for an assurance that the decision was hers alone, and did not depend on "media hype, pressure and speculation," she replied: "The date of the next election will be decided by Downing Street, not Fleet Street." Downing Street is the Prime Minister's official residence, Fleet Street the traditional home of the British national press. A Harris poll for the breakfast-time program TV-AM gave the Tories 43 pct of the vote, representing a majority of 132 seats in parliament, their biggest lead since the party's landslide victory in the 1983 elections. In The Times of London, a MORI poll gave the Tories a 92 seat majority. It was the sixth poll to show the ruling party with a big lead over the opposition Labour Party and the fast-improving centrist Alliance. Leading the chorus urging Thatcher to go to the polls in June, Sir Marcus Fox, vice-chairman of the influential 1922 committee of Conservative back-benchers, said: "I have always felt that it would be June, and this reinforces my view. "I always thought June was right. We have got most of our legislation through and to go beyond that I do not think would be in the national interest." Another Tory back-bencher, Anthony Beaumont-Dark, said: "I have always been an October man, but I think it would be good to get it out of the way now." Their comments came as government officials dismissed speculation about a snap election to coincide with local polls in May, timed to reap maximum advantage from the recent popularity surge, Thatcher's successful trip to Moscow and Labour's current popularity slump. Calls for a May poll were also prompted by Tory concern over a steady advance by the Alliance, and the possibility that if it continues it could rob the Conservatives of an overall majority in parliament. Today's MORI poll showed an Alliance gain of eight points over the past month in around 100 key marginal seats where the outcome of the next election is likely to be decided. Reuter 
PORTUGUESE AIRLINE CONFIRMS AIRBUS A310 ORDER

Portugal's "flag carrier" airline TAP has confirmed an order for three Airbus Industrie <AINP.PA> A310-300 passenger aircraft, British Aerospace Plc <BAEL.L> (BAe), one of four shareholders in the international Airbus consortium, said. BAe said in a statement TAP had also taken options on another two Airbus aircraft, either the existing A310-300 medium range craft or the long-range four-engined A340 which Airbus hopes to launch in 1992, depending on the airline's needs. BAe said the firm order confirmed a commitment taken by TAP in January. Details of the value of the contract, delivery dates or which engine would power the aircraft were not available. Reuter 
LIFFE, AFTER RECORD VOLUMES, SEES MORE GROWTH

The records in turnover set by the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) in March could be surpassed in the coming months, Liffe Chief Executive Michael Jenkins said. Last month, Liffe saw record monthly futures volume at 1.15 mln lots, and record monthly options volume at 97,700. Total Liffe volume in first quarter 1987 rose to 2.8 mln contracts, or 89 pct up on the same 1986 period. Long gilt turnover in first quarter 1987 was 300 pct up on the year-ago period at 1.63 mln lots versus 409,500. But T-bond volume fell by 38 pct to 244,500 in first three months 1987. Jenkins told Reuters the higher volumes for gilts reflected in part the volatility in the U.K. Markets in recent months, while the falloff in T-bonds was an indication of the relative stability of U.S. Credit markets. Jenkins said he saw room for the whole financial futures sector to grow further in the coming months. In particular, FT- SE 100 futures had great scope for expansion, and turnover in them should be much higher by end 1987. FT-SE futures volume was 62,700 in first quarter 1987, an increase of 124 pct over the 28,000 contracts recorded in the same months of 1986. Institutions here had been slow to find out about the use of stock exchange futures, but they would now learn more, Jenkins predicted. Commenting on the difference in popularity between gilts and bonds, Jenkins said Liffe had designed the widest possible variety of contracts so that at any given time, at least one sector would be volatile enough to attract trading. The current situation of U.S. Markets being steady, and U.K. Ones changeable, might alter completely in coming months. A further boost to Liffe's volume and attractiveness should come with the introduction of yen bond futures, he added. REUTER 
AIDC ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR ZERO COUPON EUROBOND

Australian Industry Development Corp is issuing a zero coupon eurobond with total redemption amount 30 mln Australian dlrs, lead manager Orion Royal Bank Ltd said. The issue matures on May 12, 1992 and is priced at 53-1/2 pct. It is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date is May 12. Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd, Commerzbank AG, Hambros Bank Ltd and Merrill Lynch Capital Markets are co-lead managers. There will be no co-managers. Fees total 1-3/8 pct. REUTER 
BRITISH TELECOM, NTT SIGN COOPERATION AGREEMENT

British Telecommunications Plc <BTY.L> said it had signed a collaboration agreement with Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp on the exchange of personnel and information over a three-year period beginning April 7. The company said in a statement the plan is designed to promote increased business activities of both firms. In a separate statement British Telecommunications said that it had signed a two-year, eight mln Canadian dlr, distribution agreement with <Gandalf Technologies Inc> of Canada to distribute its Mezza VoiceStation system in Canada and the U.S. Reuter 
EC SOURCES SAY UK WHEAT PLAN YET TO BE APPROVED

The European Commission has not taken a decision on applications from the British government for the release of 200,000 tonnes of intervention feed wheat onto the British market in May and June, Commission sources said. They said last week's cereals management committee agreed to release 70,000 tonnes of feed wheat through weekly tenders between April 14 and May 26. It also indicated it planned to allow the release of another 30,000 tonnes from April 23. However, it decided to leave consideration of the release of further wheat until later. The British government had applied for the release of a further 100,000 tonnes in both May and June from British intervention stores to prevent market prices rising. However, the sources said, the Commission wanted to review the market situation nearer the time before giving its approval. The Commission was given new powers last year to control the release of intervention cereals onto the market, the sources noted. Following last week's committee meeting, the U.K. Ministry of Agriculture said the Commission had given an assurance that additional quantities of intervention wheat would be made available in May and June. It also said that it was envisaged that monthly releases would be at least 100,000 tonnes, depending on the state of the market. This lead to the widespread assumption that the Commission had actually approved the release of 300,000 tonnes during the three months of April, May and June at last week's meeting. Reuter 
BOEING PROPOSES WESTLAND DEAL

Boeing Co <BA.N> said its Boeing Vertol helicopter unit proposed that U.K. Helicopter maker <Westland Plc> should build up to a third of all future Chinooks for Britain's airforce. A Boeing statement made here said the work would involve up to 12,500 man-hours per machine, and solve some of Westland's short-term workload problems. It comes amid speculation that Britain may pull out of the European EH-101 project, with the possibility of up to 2,000 Westland job losses. Westland was rescued last year by United Technologies Corp <UTX.N> and Fiat Spa <FIAT.MI>. Reuter 
MALTA TENDERS FOR WHITE SUGAR TODAY - TRADE

Malta is tendering to buy 3,000 tonnes white sugar today for arrival in two equal parts in May and June, traders said. Reuter 
FINAL TERMS SET ON ATARI CORP CONVERTIBLE EUROBOND

The coupon on the 75 mln dlr, 15-year, convertible eurobond for Atari Corp has been set at 5-1/4 pct compared with indicated range of five to 5-1/4 pct, lead manager Paine Webber International said. The conversion price was set at 32-5/8 dlrs, representing a premium of 20.38 pct over yesterday's Atari share close of 27 dlrs. REUTER 
WESTPAC BANKING ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Westpac Banking Corporation is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 6, 1990 paying 14-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead manager Deutsche Bank Capital Markets said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is one pct, while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 6. REUTER 
FEDERAL REALTY ISSUES 75 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Federal Realty Investment Trust is issuing a 75 mln dlr convertible eurobond due April 30, 2002 paying an indicated coupon of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 pct and priced at par, lead manager Salomon Brothers International said. The issue has a put option after seven years which will be priced to give the investor a yield in line with current seven year U.S. Treasury bond. Final terms will be fixed on April 9. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. REUTER 
QUEBEC ISSUES 30 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

The Province of Quebec is issuing a 30 billion yen eurobond due May 7, 1997 paying five pct and priced at 102-1/2 pct, lead manager Bank of Tokyo International Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct, while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The payment date is May 7. REUTER 
EC MAINLY FOR TIN EXTENSION, NO U.K. STAND TAKEN

European Community (EC) members of the International Tin Council, except Britain, have said they are prepared to back an extension of the International Tin Agreement, an EC spokesman said. He said at a meeting of EC states' representatives here yesterday, Britain undertook to communicate its own decision to its partners today. It said it was not ready yesterday to take a stand but did not say why. He added nine other EC states backed an extension. Spain and Portugal, which are not members of the International Tin Council, raised no objections to a common EC stance in favour. REUTER 
IAE CALLS OFF SUPERFAN ENGINE PROJECT

The five-nation <International Aero Engine> (IAE) consortium has decided not to go ahead with the proposed launch of its Superfan engine, a spokesman for consortium member <Rolls-Royce Plc> said. He said a group board meeting had concluded that a launch would have been premature given the risks involved in trying to meet an availability date of Spring, 1992 required by airlines. However, he added that the project had not been cancelled and could be offered later on. The engine was originally proposed for fitting on the <Airbus Industrie> A340. IAE's members are Rolls, United Technologies Corp's <UTX.N> Pratt and Whitney, Fiat SpA <FIAT.MI> <Japanese Aero Engines Corp> and <MTU> of West Germany. Airbus said this week it would switch to the Franco-U.S. CFM-56-S3 alternative because of doubts whether the Superfan would be ready on time. Rolls, which has been state-owned since 1971, launches its "pathfinder" prospectus giving preliminary details of its public flotation later today. Analysts said that the timing of the postponement of Superfan -- an 30,000 pound thrust upgrade of the consortium's V2500 engine fitted to the A320 -- was embarrassing but should not be considered a serious blow. If anything, it indicated the financial prudence of the group, one added. The Rolls spokesman added that the decision did not affect the V2500 programme itself. Equally, there was the possibility that the consortium would go ahead with the Superfan later on. Rolls RB211 engine was not available for fitting to early versions of the Boeing Co <BA.N> 747 but had since captured about 25 pct of the market, he noted. REUTER 
DANSK NATURGAS ISSUES 10 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Dansk Naturgas A/S is issuing a 10 billion yen eurobond due May 13, 1993 paying 4-5/8 pct and priced at 101-5/8 pct, lead manager IBJ International Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The issue is guaranteed by Denmark. The payment date is May 13. REUTER 
EC SUGAR TENDER HARD TO PREDICT - LONDON TRADE

The outcome of today's European Community (EC) white sugar tender is extremely difficult to predict after last week's substantial award of 102,350 tonnes at the highest ever rebate of 46.864 European currency units (Ecus) per 100 kilos, traders said. Some said they believed the tonnage would probably be smaller, at around 60,000 tonnes, but declined to give a view on the likely restitution. Last week, the European Commission accepted 785,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention by operators protesting about low rebates. This might be a determining factor in today's result, they added. REUTER 
ELDERS PLANS TO FLOAT OFF COURAGE PUBS

Elders IXL Ltd <ELXA.S> plans to float off the around 5,000 public houses belonging to its U.K. Subsidiary Courage Ltd to raise about one billion stg, Elders strategy executive director Stuart Kelso said. The scheme, subject of speculation in a Scottish newspaper yesterday, was fairly well advanced, but not certain to go ahead. "There could be road blocks," he added. The earliest flotation date would be June, though the sale will probably be later. Elders would retain a one-third interest in the property interests under the current plan. No immediate use has been earmarked for the funds raised. Kelso said float plans currently include an offering of debentures to institutional investors and issues of ordinary shares and convertible stock for sale to the public. Elders bought Courage from Hanson Trust Plc <HNSN.L> last year for 1.4 mln stg. The deal followed Elders' unsuccessful efforts to expand into the U.K. Drinks industry by acquiring Allied-Lyons Plc <ALLD.L>. Hanson acquired Courage when it took over Imperial Group Plc early last year. The Elders plan to raise funds from Courage is a variant of the its earlier scheme to sell off 50 pct stakes in the Allied-Lyons pubs to their publicans, market sources added. REUTER 
HOKURIKU ELECTRIC ISSUES 35 MLN DLR WARRANT BOND

Hokuriku Electric Industry is issuing a 35 mln dlr equity warrant bond due May 7, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Hokuriku Bank Ltd. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. Final terms are due April 16. The payment date is May 7 and the issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs. Listing will be in Luxembourg. REUTER 
FEDERAL REALTY ISSUES 75 MLN DLR CONVERTIBLE BOND

Federal Realty Investment Trust is issuing a 75 mln dlr convertible eurobond due April 30, 2002 paying an indicated coupon of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 pct and priced at par, lead manager Salomon Brothers International said. The issue has a put option after seven years which will be priced to give the investor a yield in line with current seven year U.S. Treasury bond. Final terms will be fixed on April 9. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs. REUTER 
QUEBEC ISSUES 30 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

The Province of Quebec is issuing a 30 billion yen eurobond due May 7, 1997 paying five pct and priced at 102-1/2 pct, lead manager Bank of Tokyo International Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct, while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The payment date is May 7. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 53 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with 53 mln stg assistance in the morning session. This compares with the bank's estimate of a shortage in the system of around 300 mln stg which it earlier revised up from 250 mln. The central bank made outright purchases of bank bills comprising 46 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and seven mln stg in band four at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 
COUPON CUT ON KEIHANSHIN REAL ESTATE WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 25 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond for Keihanshin Real Estate Co Ltd has been set at 2-1/8 pct compared with the 2-1/4 pct indication, lead manager Daiwa Europe Ltd said. The exercise price has been set at 810 yen per share which represents a premium of 2.53 pct over today's closing price of 790 yen. The exchange rate was set 146.30 yen to the dollar. The five-year deal is priced at par and guaranteed by the Sumitomo Bank Ltd. REUTER 
NATIONAL BANK MORTGAGE ISSUES CANADIAN DLR BOND

National Bank Mortgage Corp is issuing a 100 mln Canadian dlr eurobond due May 18, 1992 with a nine pct coupon and priced at 101-3/4 pct, McLeod Young Weir International Ltd said as lead manager. The non-callable bonds will be guaranteed by the National Bank of Canada. They will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and listed in Luxembourg. Gross fees of 1-7/8 pct comprise 1-1/4 pct for selling and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Pay date is May 18. There will be two co-leads. REUTER 
NICKEL PRICES UNLIKELY TO RISE MUCH - SHEARSON

Nickel prices are unlikely to rise significantly from current levels unless further steps are taken to reduce production, Shearson Lehman Brothers said in its quarterly nickel market report. The market had recovered slightly to around 1.72 dlrs a lb yesterday from its four year low of 1.55 dlrs in early January, due to the absence of Soviet nickel cathode deliveries, but Shearson sees Soviet shipments soon returning to last year's buoyant levels, which should ease current tightness. Output reductions by producers will take effect later this year but are likely to be offset by increases elsewhere. Shearson said the nickel market will be virtually in balance during 1987, with total non-Socialist world demand at 556,000 tonnes, compared with an estimated 544,000 tonnes in 1986, production at 505,000 tonnes (504,000) and imports from Socialist countries at 47,000 tonnes (50,000). It forecast prices will edge higher during the year from a first quarter average of 1.67 dlrs a lb up to 1.77 dlrs in the last quarter. The year's average will be around 1.72 dlrs a lb compared with 1.76 dlrs in 1986, using London Metal Exchange cash metal prices in dollar terms and assuming an average 1987 sterling exchange rate of 1.55 dlrs. REUTER 
U.K. GOVT TO INJECT 283 MLN STG INTO ROLLS ROYCE

The U.K. Government will inject 283 mln stg gross into <Rolls Royce Plc> when the company is floated at the end of this month, the pathfinder prospectus for the sale said. The government will offer all 635 mln existing shares, as well as an unspecified number of shares created through the capital injection, for sale to the public, the prospectus said. The sale price will be announced on April 28 and the offer will close on May 7. Trading is expected to begin on May 19. The offer will be made in the U.K. Only and there will be no offering of shares overseas, it said. No allocation will be made of more than 10 pct of the shares in the company, and the government will hold on to a "golden share" to secure that the aero-engine manufacturer remains under U.K. Control, the prospectus said. Chairman Sir Francis Tombs said in the prospectus special arrangements were being made for U.K. Employees and pensioners of the company to buy shares on a preferential basis. Secretary of State for Trade and Industry Paul Channon said the capital injection of 283 mln stg would ensure the company had a sound a balance sheet when it returned to the private sector after 1971. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 166 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the market with further help totalling 166 mln stg during the afternoon. In band one, it bought 31 mln stg of treasury bills and three mln stg of bank bills at 9-7/8 pct, while in band two it bought 69 mln stg of bank bills at 9-13/16 pct. In addition, it bought 63 mln stg of band three bank bills at 9-3/4 pct. This brings the total assistance by the Bank so far today to 219 mln stg against a liquidity shortage it has estimated at around 300 mln stg. REUTER 
U.K. INTERVENTION BOARD DETAILS EC SUGAR SALES

A total 118,350 tonnes of current series white sugar received export rebates of a maximum 46.496 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos at today's European Community (EC) tender, the U.K. Intervention Board said. Out of this, traders in the U.K. Received 37,800 tonnes, in France 34,500, in West Germany 20,000, in Belgium 18,500, in Spain 5,800 and in Denmark 1,750 tonnes, it added. Earlier today, London traders had declined to give a projected view on the level of subsidy although some said total tonnage awards would be around 60,000 tonnes. Paris traders foresaw between 60,000 and 100,000 tonnes being authorised for export at a 46.40/46.50 Ecu subsidy. Cumulative sales authorisations for the current season (1986/87) now stand at 2,194,970 tonnes (43 weeks). Last week saw 102,350 tonnes whites authorised for export under licences to end-Sep at the higest ever rebate of 46.864 European Currency Units (Ecus) per 100 kilos. REUTER 
U.K. EXPECTS SUBSTANTIAL DEMAND FOR ROLLS SHARES

Demand for shares in state-owned engine maker <Rolls Royce Plc> is expected to be substantial when the government privatises it at the end of April, Christopher Clark of the group's bankers Samuel Montagu and Sons Ltd said. He told a press conference after the release of an initial prospectus for the float that the issue would be offered to U.K. Institutions, company employees and the general public. As in previous flotations, clawback arrangements would be made if public subscriptions exceeded initial allocations. He declined to say how the shares would be allocated beyond saying that a "significant proportion" would go to institutions. A decision on what percentage would go to each sector would be made shortly before the sale price was announced on April 28. Minimum subscription would be for 400 shares with payment in two tranches, again a method broadly in line with previous privatisations. Chairman Sir Francis Tombs denied suggestions that Rolls was a stock that should be left to the institutions. He noted that although the aircraft industry was cyclical, Rolls had several operations -- such as spare parts and military equipment -- that evened out the swings. Rolls' 1986 research and development expenditure in 1986 was 255 mln stg and could be expected in the future to vary according to changes in turnover. He noted that net research and development expenditure was written off in the year it occurred, a policy that received "inadequate recognition in one or two of the more extravagant forecasts of future profits." He made no forecast himself. In 1986, Rolls reported that pretax profit rose 48 pct to 120 mln stg on turnover 12 pct higher at 1.8 billion. Reuter 
FEDERAL REALTY CONVERTIBLE INCREASED, PRICED

Today's dollar convertible eurobond for Federal Realty Investment Trust has been increased to 100 mln dlrs from the initial 75 mln, lead manager Salomon Brothers International said. The coupon has been fixed at 5-1/4 pct compared with the indicated range of 5-1/4 to 5-1/2 pct. The conversion price has been fixed at 30-5/8 dlrs compared with last night's close in the U.S. Of 25-1/2 dlrs. This represents a premium of 20 pct. The put option after seven years was priced at 120 pct to give the investor a yield to the put of 7.53 pct. REUTER 
TORONTO DOMINION UNIT ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Toronto Dominion Bank, Nassau Branch is issuing a 40 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 15, 1990 paying 14-1/2 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in London. The selling concession is one pct, while management and underwriting combined will pay 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 15. REUTER 
TORONTO DOMINION UNIT ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Toronto Dominion Bank, Nassau Branch is issuing a 40 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 15, 1990 paying 14-1/2 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in London. The selling concession is one pct, while management and underwriting combined will pay 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 15. Reuter 
FINAL TERMS SET ON ATARI CORP CONVERTIBLE EUROBOND

The coupon on the 75 mln dlr, 15-year, convertible eurobond for Atari Corp has been set at 5-1/4 pct compared with indicated range of five to 5-1/4 pct, lead manager Paine Webber International said. The conversion price was set at 32-5/8 dlrs, representing a premium of 20.38 pct over yesterday's Atari share close of 27 dlrs. REUTER 
EASTMAN KODAK ISSUES AUSTRALIA DOLLAR BOND

Eastman Kodak Co is issuing a 200 mln Australian dlr zero-coupon bond due May 12, 1992 and priced at 54-3/8 for an effecitve yield of 13.52 pct, said Merrill Lynch Capital Markets as lead manager. The securities, which are available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs, will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Eastman Kodak's outstanding issues are rated AAA/AA. There is a 7/8 pct selling concession and 1/2 pct combined management and underwriting fee. Payment is due May 12, 1987. REUTER 
IRAN SAYS OFFENSIVE AIMED AT DESTROYING IRAQ ARMY

Iran decided to continue its operations east of Basra to destroy Iraq's forces, Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi told Tehran Radio. "That seems to be the best spot for the complete destruction of (Iraqi President) Saddam's forces. This is why it was decided that the operations would forcefully continue there," he said. "At the same time, we have maintained our ability to act throughout the length of the fronts," Mousavi told the radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation. Tehran Radio reported over 1,500 Iraqi casualties today as Iran continued its Karbala-8 operation launched early yesterday. Iran said over 2,600 Iraqis had been killed or wounded yesterday. Iraq said today its forces had beaten back the latest attacks inflicting heavy casualties. Mousavi told Tehran radio that "on the whole, our advances have broken the back of the military forces of Saddam." Earlier today the Iranian news agency IRNA said Tehran's forces were stabilising new positions after their assault on Iraqi lines defending Basra, Iraq's second city. In Baghdad, a military spokesman said Iraqi warplanes today destroyed an oil pumping station and a production unit at Iran's Ahvaz field. Reuter 
GUINNESS PLC NON-EXEC CHAIRMAN TO REMAIN

Sir Norman Macfarlane, non-executive chairman of <Guinness PLC>, has agreed to remain in his post for two more years, the company said. The company said its board asked Macfarlane to continue in his capacity. Macfarlane has been in his post since January. Reuter 
COCOA TERMINAL DEPOSITS TO BE CUT 25 PCT - ICCH

The basic deposit on cocoa futures contracts will be reduced by 25 pct as from Friday, April 10, taking the required deposit for one 10 tonne lot to 300 stg from 400 previously, a spokesman for the International Commodity Clearing House (ICCH) said. The deposit for spread contracts will be similarly cut, to 150 stg for a one 10 tonne lot from 200 previously, he said. The ICCH had been looking at cocoa market fluctuations over a period of weeks, he said, adding the market's basic stability had warranted a cut in deposit rates. The decision to cut deposits was taken by the ICCH after consultation with the London Cocoa Terminal Market, the spokesman said. The cuts were likely to attract more business to the market, he said. Reuter 
U.K. CHEMICAL INDUSTRY CAPITAL SPENDING SEEN UP

Capital spending in the U.K. Chemical industry is expected to rise to 1.4 billion stg this year, a three pct increase on the 1986 level after inflation, the Chemical Industry Association said. A further increase to 1.52 billion stg is expected in 1988, but there will be a decline to 1.38 billion in 1989, the association found in its latest investment intentions survey. Even so, the estimated total fixed capital spending for the 1987-89 period of 4.3 billion is a real spending increase of six pct on the previous three years, the report said. Eighty-one firms took part in the survey. Reuter 
TALKS CONTINUE ON TIN AGREEMENT EXTENSION

Discussions on the possible extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA) began at the quarterly session of the International Tin Council (ITC) but the Council is still waiting for decisions from various member states. A number of producer governments in particular have not decided their final position on whether the ITA should be extended for up to two years or wound down after it expires on June 30, according to delegate sources. Earlier today European Community (EC) members decided to back an extension, with the exception of Britain, which undertook to communicate its decision to its EC partners later. Delegates said it could be Friday before all the member countries declare their positions on the possible extension. Today's full Council session started shortly before 1500 GMT after the scheduled 1330 start was delayed by an EC coordination meeting. The council reconvenes at 0930 GMT tomorrow, although delegates said the morning is likely to be taken up with minor technical matters and the main issue will probably not be discussed before the afternoon session. Reuter 
CONSERVATIVE LEAD DROPS IN NEW U.K. OPINION POLL

A British opinion poll showed the ruling Conservative party was still ahead of Labour and the Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance, but support appeared to be declining, raising the spectre of an inconclusive election result. The Marplan poll, to be published in tomorrow's Guardian newspaper, showed support for the Conservative party stood at 38 pct against 32 pct for Labour and 27 pct for the Alliance. Reuter 
GHANA TO BUY CRUDE OIL FROM IRAN

Ghana will import 15,000 tonnes of crude oil annually from Iran under an agreement reached in Tehran today, the Iranian news agency IRNA reported. The agency, received in London, said the accord was reached between Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh and a visiting Ghanaian delegation headed by Foreign Minister Obed Asamoah. IRNA said that under the agreement, Iran will also provide technical and scientific assistance in manpower training and oil exploitation, production and refining. Reuter 
SAUDI AMERICAN BANK OPENS BRANCH IN LONDON

Saudi American Bank (SAMBA) will concentrate on treasury activities and be an active market maker in Saudi riyal foreign exchange through the new branch that opened here, Shaukat Aziz, SAMBA managing director said. He told Reuters that SAMBA also will be active in corporate banking, correspondent banking and investment management. It also plans to develop trade financing between the Middle East and Europe and be active in the Eurocurrency and sterling deposit markets. SAMBA is 40 pct owned by Citicorp of the U.S. And the balance is held by Saudi shareholders. Reuter 
BRITISH AIRWAYS ISSUES 100 MLN STG EUROBOND

British Airways Plc <BAB.L> is issuing a 100 mln stg eurobond due May 6, 1997, paying 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2, lead manager Union Bank of Switzerland said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in London. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. Payment date is May 6. REUTER 
XYVISION ISSUES CONVERTIBLE EUROBOND

XYVision Inc is issuing a 25 mln dlr convertible eurobond due May 5, 2002 paying an indicated coupon of between 5-3/4 and six pct and priced at par, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The issue is callable after 30 days at 106 pct declining by one pct per annum to par thereafter. It is not callable for three years unless the conversion price exceeds the stock price by 130 pct. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. Final terms will be set on, or before, April 15. The issue is available in bearer and registered form in denominations of 5,000 dlrs. It will be listed in Luxembourg while the payment date is May 5. REUTER 
CIBC UNIT ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR ZERO COUPON BOND

CIBC Australia Ltd is issuing a zero coupon eurobond with a total redemption amount of 125 mln Australian dlrs due May 15, 1992 priced at 54 pct, sole lead manager CIBC Ltd said. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and is guaranteed Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. The selling concession is 3/4 pct, while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 15. REUTER 
NEW LONDON AIRPORT WILL OFFER FLIGHTS TO EUROPE

The British Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) has granted licenses for two airlines, <Brymon Airways> and <Eurocity Express>, to fly three lucrative European routes from the 20 mln stg London docklands airport. Brymon plans to offer five flights a day from the London City Airport to Paris, and three to Amsterdam and Brussels. Eurocity will also operate flights to Duesseldorf and Rotterdam. The airport is due to open in October, and is only a 20-minute taxi ride from the capital's financial district, the City, compared to an hour to get from the City to the nearest existing airport, Heathrow. REUTER 
SANKEI BUILDING ISSUES EQUITY WARRANT EUROBOND

Sankei Building Co Ltd is issuing a 60 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due May 7, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of 2-1/8 pct and priced at par, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Sumitomo Bank Ltd and is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The payment date is May 7 and listing will be in Luxembourg. Final terms will be fixed on April 15. The warrants are exercisable from May 21, 1987 until April 23, 1992. REUTER 
CARGILL CONFIRMS WHITE SUGAR SALE TO INDIA

London-based trader Cargill (U.K.) Ltd confirmed it sold one cargo of white sugar to India for shipment April 15/May 15 at yesterday's tender. Price details were not immediately available but some traders suggested business had been done around 220 dlrs a tonne cif. India tendered for one or two cargoes of white sugar. There was no specific requirement on shipping period. REUTER 
EIB ISSUES 40 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

The European Investment Bank (EIB) is issuing a 40 billion yen eurobond due May 6, 1994 paying 4-5/8 pct and priced at 101-1/2, lead Nomura International Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 6. There is a mandatory purchase fund operating in years one and two, except for the first month after the payment date, whereby the EIB can purchase up to five pct of the issue each year if it is trading below par. REUTER 
JOHNSON MATTHEY'S PLATINUM GROUP PRICES

Johnson Matthey today issued the following Platinum group base prices (unfabricated), all U.S. Dlrs per troy ounce. Previous prices in parentheses. PLATINUM - 562 (567) PALLADIUM - 130 (130) IRIDIUM - 400 (400) RHODIUM 1,230 (1,230) RUTHENIUM - 80 (80) 
TORONTO DOMINION AUSTRALIA DOLLAR BOND INCREASED

Toronto Dominion Bank, Nassau Branch, has increased its eurobond offering to 50 mln Australian <dlrs from 40 mln, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. All other terms remain the same. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GETS 103 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it operated in the money market this morning, buying 103 mln stg bank bills. The central bank bought in band one 60 mln stg at 9-7/8, in band two eight mln at 9-13/16, in band three 26 mln at 9-3/4 and in band four nine mln stg at 9-11/16 pct. This compares with the bank's forecast of a 400 mln stg shortfall today. REUTER 
THAILAND TO RENEW LONG TERM SUGAR CONTRACTS -TRADE

Thailand is to negotiate tomorrow with selected trade houses for renewal of long term raw sugar sales contracts, to cover the next five years at a rate of 60,000 tonnes annually, traders said. They also reported vague talk Algeria may be seeking 50,000 tonnes of raws tomorrow but details are unclear. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REVISED DOWNWARD

The Bank of England said it has revised its estimate of today's shortfall to 350 mln stg from 400 mln, before taking account of 103 mln stg morning assistance. REUTER 
SEKISUI CHEMICAL ISSUES EQUITY WARRANT EUROBOND

Sekisui Chemical Co Ltd is issuing a 200 mln dlr equity warrant bond due May 7, 1992 paying an indicated coupon of two pct and priced at par, lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Sanwa Bank Ltd and is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The payment date is May 7 while listing will be in Luxembourg. Final terms will be fixed on April 15. The warrants are exercisable from May 20, 1987 until April 20, 1992. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT REMOVED

The Bank of England said it has satisfied its revised estimate of today's shortfall in the money market, providing 261 mln stg assistance in afternoon operations. The Bank bought in band one, 60 mln stg bank bills at 9-7/8 pct and in band two 200 mln stg bank bills and one mln stg treasury bills at 9-13/16 pct. This brings the total help so far today to 364 mln stg, compared with its deficit estimate of 350 mln stg. REUTER 
RIO TINTO CUTS DEBT-EQUITY RATIO

Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Plc <RTZL.L> cut its balance sheet gearing, measured as net debt as a proportion of equity, to 35 pct at the end of 1986 from 61 pct a year earlier, finance director Andrew Buxton told reporters. He said currency movements last year did not greatly affect the earnings outcome, though had a greater impact on the balance sheet. At year-end, 40 pct of its assets were industrial, 35 pct in metal mining and processing and 25 pct in energy. Earlier, RTZ reported 1986 net attributable profit of 245 mln stg against 257 mln the previous year. Reuter 
LONDON FREIGHT MARKET FEATURES GRAIN OUT OF U.S.

Moderately active grain fixing was reported out of the U.S. But none of the business involved the significant voyages to the Continent or Japan, ship brokers said. A steady 13.50 dlrs was paid from the U.S. Gulf to Morocco and 23.25 dlrs was paid for 27,000 long tons from the Gulf to Taiwan. A vessel carrying 13,500 long tons of bagged wheat flour from the Gulf to Aqaba received a lump sum of 472,500 dlrs. Grain from the Great Lakes to Algeria made 28 dlrs against 27.75 paid for similar fixing towards the end of March. Market talk suggested a Federal Commerce vessel had been booked to move grain from the Great Lakes to Morocco on Comanav account at about 22 dlrs and 15.50 had been paid for a cargo of oilseeds from British Columbia to Japan, but no confirmation was obtainable. On the Continent, shippers agreed 19 dlrs for wheat from La Pallice to Buenaventura and 10.75 dlrs for grain from Ghent to Naples/Venice range. Elsewhere, maize from East London to Japan paid 22 dlrs. Soviet charterers reappeared in the timecharter sector and secured a 30,000 tonner from Savona for a trans-Atlantic round trip at 4,450 dlrs daily and a 31,000 tonner from Antwerp-Hamburg for a similar voyage at 4,250 dlrs daily. Reuter 
HOKKAIDO TAKUSHOKU CONVERTIBLE EUROBOND COUPON CUT

The coupon on the 100 mln dlr, 15-year, convertible eurobond for Hokkaido Takushoku Bank Ltd has been set at 1-3/4 pct compared with the indicated two pct, joint-lead bookrunner Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. The conversion price was set at 1,052 yen, while the foreign exchange rate was fixed at 146.20 yen per dollar. REUTER 
LEAD PRICES RISE ON FINELY BALANCED PHYSICALS

Lead prices have risen this week against a background of a finely balanced physical sector, traders said. Further gains are possible if the USSR steps up its buying or if labour problems develop in North America, they added. London Metal Exchange (LME) prices are unusually buoyant at a time of year when seasonal demand is normally slackening and prices tending to drift lower. This buoyancy is generally attributed by traders to the low level of LME stocks and steady, if unspectacular, physical demand in the Northern Hemisphere finding supplies curtailed. The supply problems are not new but are beginning to be felt by a market in which, as peak winter demand tails off, stocks usually build fast and availability increases, traders said. The lower supply levels result from a number of different factors around the globe. Delayed shipments from Peru to Mediterranean countries because of production and transport problems, lack of Spanish exports since the closure last year of Cia La Cruz's smelter at Linares and lower output in Morocco and Greece have all meant additional demand being directed to merchants who in turn have been drawing on LME stocks. In addition Broken Hill Associated Smelters' Port Pirie, South Australia, smelter is halting production for five weeks for maintenance. Although the company said it would meet commitments, this will put further pressure on stocks. And the U.S. Company Doe Run has kept its 140,000 tonnes per year Boss, Montana smelter closed. This cut producer stocks and contributed to a closer supply/demand balance within the U.S. Market, for many years depressed by surplus production and a regular supplier to the world market. Mexican supplies, which have sometimes swelled LME stocks, have been normal but are finding ready buyers, traders said. On the demand side, winter battery manufacture has held up quite well and some U.S. Buying of lead sheet has been reported in the U.K. Soviet lead buying, notably absent in Europe in the first two months of the year, was resumed when a large buying order was filled by merchants in March. Merchant demand has fuelled the rise in LME lead prices this week and has seen cash metal move above 320 stg and establish a premium of around 10 stg over three months delivery. Specific demand has been directed towards metal in Gothenburg and Trieste warehouses. Gothenburg material is often a target for merchants shipping to the USSR, traders said. On stocks, the popular LME Continental warehouses, Antwerp and Rotterdam, have little more than 3,000 tonnes of lead each, and this is believed to be in strong hands. Out of a total 22,125 tonnes in LME stocks, the lowest level since June 1980, just over half is in U.K. Warehouses which are not popular with merchants putting together shipments. But even U.K. Stocks have dropped around 6,000 tonnes since the start of the year. Traders said this is partly due to secondary smelters buying ingots to supplement feed supplies affected by environmental controls, which put restrictions on the transport of used batteries. Labour negotiations in North America will play an important part in determining the direction of prices, with contracts expiring end-April at Cominco's Trail and Kimberley, B.C., Mine/smelter and at Doe Run's Herculaneum, Mo, smelter. Noranda's New Brunswick mine/smelter also has a contract expiry in July which may cause some nervousness in view of strikes by its zinc and copper workers over recent months. Traders said LME three months delivery, already attracting speculative buying, could rise to 320/330 stg on current firmness, while nearby tightness could widen the cash premium to 20 from four. Three months was quoted at 313 stg at midsession. Reuter 
U.K. CHANCELLOR LAWSON SAYS THERE MAY BE NEED TO CUT
INTEREST RATES IN SOME COUNTRIES



U.K. POTATO FUTURES TRADING NOT TO BE SUSPENDED

Trading on the London potato futures market will not be suspended, Richard Harris, Chairman of the London Potato Futures Association (LPFA), said in a statement to floor members. It was in response to strong representations by the Potato Marketing Board (PMB) complaining of a gross distortion of price which they say will result in large deliveries into the physical market when the April futures position expires. The PMB had sought an immediate suspension in futures trading and asked the LPFA to take action to restore the relationship between futures and physicals. Farmers and merchants have alleged a squeeze and cornering of the market but Harris pointed out that recent investigations by the Association of Futures Brokers and Dealers (AFBD), the International Commodities Clearing House (ICCH) and other parties, found no evidence to substantiate this. The main complaint from some sections of the physical market is what they say is an unrealistic futures premium over the PMB's average ex-farm price. April futures traded this morning between 168 and 170 stg per tonne compared with PMB's average price of 104 stg. Bill Englebright, joint secretary of the LPFA said there is a two-tier market for physical potatoes. He said quality potatoes are in short supply and prepackers have been paying between 145 and 165 stg per tonne for best samples. But lesser quality grades have traded below 100 stg. Some merchants fear that a large tonnage will be delivered against the April futures contract between now and the end of the month, and possibly disrupt the physical market. Harris said the LPFA rule book allows the management committee to take steps as necessary to correct any malpractice and he assured the committee is monitoring the situation. Reuter 
SPOT TIN EASIER ON EUROPEAN FREE MARKET

Spot tin on the European free market was indicated in the easier range 4,200 to 4,230 stg per tonne, for high grade metal in warehouse Rotterdam, down 20 stg from yesterday's afternoon kerb close. Stability in sterling versus the dollar continued to apply pressure to a market which is coming close to testing a psychological chart support base at 4,200 stg, traders said. Dealers said major consumers still need to cover their May and June requirements but are holding out for even lower offers. Reported high grade tin business in London was confined to end April metal at 4,225 stg. Small-scale spot business was reported by West German operators at 12.60 and 12.63 marks per kilo although the market was still being undercut by Chinese material, which traded at one stage down to 12.54 marks per kilo, traders said. REUTER 
STANDARD ELEKTRIK ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR EUROBOND

Standard Elektrik Lorenz Finanz BV is issuing a 40 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 11, 1990 paying 14-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. It is guaranteed by Standard Elektrik Lorenz AG. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The payment date is May 11. REUTER 
IRAN SAYS IT OPENS NEW OFFENSIVE NORTH OF BAGHDAD

Iran said it launched a fresh offensive today north of Baghdad, three days after it began a new thrust against Iraq on the southern Gulf war front. The Iranian news agency IRNA, received in London, said the offensive began before dawn northeast of Qasr-e-Shirin, on the border 110 miles northeast of the Iraqi capital. "Heavy casualties and losses have been inflicted on Iraqi forces in the fresh Iranian assault," IRNA said. Iran today reported major gains on the southern front near the major Iraqi port city of Basra, saying its forces had captured an important defensive line. REUTER 
BERLINER BANK ISSUES 50 MLN AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Berliner Bank AG Berlin is issuing a 50 mln Australian dlr eurobond due November 13, 1990 paying 14-1/4 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 13 and there will be a long first coupon period. REUTER 
IRAN SAYS IT OPENS NEW OFFENSIVE NORTH OF BAGHDAD

Iran said it launched a fresh offensive today north of Baghdad, three days after it began a new thrust against Iraq on the southern Gulf war front. The Iranian news agency IRNA, received in London, said the offensive began before dawn northeast of Qasr-e-Shirin, on the border 110 miles northeast of the Iraqi capital. "Heavy casualties and losses have been inflicted on Iraqi forces in the fresh Iranian assault," IRNA said. Iran today reported major gains on the southern front near the major Iraqi port city of Basra, saying its forces had captured an important defensive line. Iraq said today it repelled an Iranian assault near its southern port of Basra last night, inflicting thousands of casualties on the attackers. An Iraqi field commander told a correspondent of the official Iraqi news agency INA that four Iranian divisions were destroyed in the fighting. He said "Our forces are still engaged in repelling the enemy offensive, inflicting on them intensive losses, but (they are) in full control of the situation." A Baghdad war communique last night said Iraq had foiled a three-pronged thrust some 10 km from Basra while admitting Iran had occupied some fresh territory. REUTER 
TORONTO DOMINION AUSTRALIA DOLLAR BOND INCREASED

Toronto Dominion Bank, Nassau Branch, has increased its eurobond offering to 50 mln Australian dlrs from 40 mln, lead manager Hambros Bank Ltd said. All other terms remain the same. REUTER 
LLOYD'S OFFERS CASH IN BID TO END PCW AFFAIR

Lloyd's of London has offered to meet part of the 235 mln stg in claims that investors in PCW Underwriting Agencies face due to fraud and mismanagement, chairman Peter Miller said at a press conference. Miller urged 3,000 PCW members to accept the offer so that the five-year-old affair could be closed. The members have until May 30 to accept the offer, involving a 103 mln stg payment by Lloyd's and some of Lloyd's underwriters in exchange for a 34 mln stg contribution from PCW members, he said. Miller said that at end-1985, PCW syndicates had gross liabilities of 680 mln stg. To offset this, they had assets, including cash and payments from reinsurance policies on some of the risks underwritten by the syndicates, of 445 mln stg, leaving net liabilities of 235 mln, he said. The total sum on offer, including a 48 mln stg payment from Lloyd's 311 mln stg contingency fund and 55 mln stg from Lloyd's brokers who could otherwise face court cases for their involvement in PCW, is designed to cover the full reinsurance cost for those 235 mln stg of net liabilities, Miller said. Under the offer, which requires 90 pct acceptance, Lloyd's itself would take over all members' future obligations connected with the PCW syndicates, Miller said. Members would have to agree not to pursue the matter in court. Miller said a rejection of the offer would probably lead to protracted litigation in court which, even if succesful for members, was unlikely to produce a better deal for them. He added that acceptance would mean members could continue underwriting in the Lloyd's market and qualify for tax relief on the cash payments they would make towards the settlement. Miller denied that PCW members would face bills of over 200,000 stg. He said only 34 members would be asked to pay between 100,000 and 200,000 stg, and about 100 between 60,000 and 100,000 stg. Special arrangements would be sought for those who accept the offer but are unable to pay. Miller said the offer did not imply Lloyd's accepted responsibility for the affair, uncovered in the late autumn of 1982 when "it became quite clear that (PCW agency founder) Peter Cameron Webb and (his partner) Peter Dixon had perpetrated theft upon members," he said. Part of the sum involved was subsequently recovered and repaid to members, but Cameron Webb and Dixon left the affairs of PCW syndicates "in a state of chaos which led to a sharp deterioration of their underwriting results," Miller said. Both were fined by a Lloyd's disciplinary committee and expelled from membership. He said Lloyd's would continue to seek reparation in British and U.S. Courts "with the utmost vigour ... To bring to a close one of the most shameful episodes in the history of Lloyd's," and was contemplating claiming the full amount of the settlement now on offer from Cameron Webb and Dixon. In a reaction, insurance brokerage Sedgwick Group Plc <SDWK.L> said it supported Lloyd's proposals and had contributed 10 mln stg towards the proposed settlement. It said in a statement, "as largest broker in the Lloyd's market, the company has an essential interest in maintaining the reputation of the market. That reputation has been damaged by problems at PCW and will continue to be so as long as they remain unresolved." It had contributed to the proposed settlement to avoid costs related to the defence of some of its subsidiaries which had been named as potential defendants to litigation by PCW members, it said. Reuter 
FIRE AT TATE/LYLE LONDON JETTY HALTS UNLOADING

No raw sugar is being unloaded at Tate and Lyles refinery at Silvertown on the River Thames following a fire yesterday afternoon, Tate and Lyle Plc said. The fire destroyed a large sector of the main conveyor from the raw sugar jetty to the weighhouse. The company said it is not yet known how long the jetty will be out of use but it hoped that by tomorrow unloading of the bulk carrier Mykon Wave will be able to continue using temporary arrangements, Tate and Lyle said. The Mykon Wave arrived in the port recently with about 18,300 tonnes of bulk sugar from Maputo in Swaziland. About 1,600 tonnes remain to be discharged. Five other ships loaded with raw sugar are awaiting at Silvertown to be discharged, Tate and Lyle added. Reuter 
RIO TINTO SEES MODEST INCREASE IN METALS DEMAND

The consumption of some base metals, along with dollar prices, are showing signs of modest improvement, according to Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Plc (RTZ). However, the company said, iron ore markets have weakened. RTZ commodity specialist Philip Crowson told reporters he thought base metals industry forecasts for 1987 were erring on the side of caution, whereas forecasts for the last several years had proven over-optimistic. RTZ said it expected to benefit from a rise in U.S. And industrial production in 1987. Earlier, RTZ reported 1986 net attributable profit of 245 mln stg against 257 mln in 1985. Reuter 
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHTS

27,000 long tons USG/Taiwan 23.25 dlrs fio five days/1,500 1-10/5 Continental. Trade Banner - 30,000 long tons grain USG/Morocco 13.50 dlrs 5,000/5,000 end-April/early-May Comanav. Reference New York Grain Freights 1 of April 8, ship brokers say the vessel fixed by Cam from the Great Lakes to Algeria at 28 dlrs is reported to be the Vamand Wave. Reference New York Grain Freights 2 of April 8, they say the Cory Grain maize business from East London at 22 dlrs is to Japan and not to Spain as reported. Reuter 
LONDON SUGAR FREIGHTS

TBN 14,00 mt bulk sugar Fiji/Prai 16 dlrs fio 10,000/1,000 1-10/5 Fiji Sugar Marketing. TBN 15,000 mt bulk sugar Queensland/Japan 14.65 dlrs fio 10,000/1,000 20-30/4 CSR. ENQUIRIES - Antwerp/1-3 ports Greece 40,000 mt bagged sugar indications 750/750 in shipments of 10,000/15,000 tonnes spread from May to July a/c unnamed charterer. Inchon/India 12,600 mt bagged sugar 1,000/1,000 20/4-5/5 a/c Kaines. Reunion/1-2 ports Portugal 10,000 mt bulk sugar about 20 dlrs 2,000/750 1-10/5 a/c French charterer. Reuter 
LONDON GRAIN FREIGHT ENQUIRIES

Antwerp/Libya 5,500 mt bagged flour 14 daps 24-27/4. New Orleans/Guanta 9,387 mt bulk hss 3,000/13 days 25-4/5-5. Naantali/Saudi Red Sea 30,000/35,000 mt barley 4,000/3,000 20-30/4 or early May. Dunkirk/Xingang 12,000 mt bagged flour 1,500/1,700 13-20/4. Toledo/Seaforth 17,000 mt hss offers 18.50 dlrs four days/8,000 13-15/4. River Plate/Malaysia 20,000/22,000 long tons hss 2,000/2,000 Apr. Reuter 
LONDON EURODOLLAR BONDS CLOSE LOWER

Eurodollar bonds closed as much as a full point lower as the dollar fell to a post-war low against the yen and interest rates on U.S. Treasuries rose almost to eight pct. The dollar fell to 144.30 yen and recovered only slightly after foreign exchange traders in New York said the Federal Reserve intervened to buy dollars for yen. But despite the dollar's woes, Japan Development Bank, wholly owned by the Japanese government, raised 150 mln dlrs in a seven-year eurobond carrying an eight pct coupon. Lead manager for the issue, Bank of Tokyo, said the deal, at the time of pricing, was to yield 60 basis points over comparable maturity Treasuries. However, by the close of trading, that spread had narrowed to 55 and continued to slide in aftermarket activity. Dealers noted that the spread to Treasuries is wide for a newly-priced AAA-rated borrower like Japan Development Bank. For example, earlier this week, the World Bank raised U.S. Dlrs at only 25 basis points over Treasuries. Dealers said that because the borrower comes to market fairly infrequently -- the last time was about nine months ago, the spread appears wide. But officials at Bank of Tokyo said the spread is intended to compensate for the lack of liquidity and for the uncertainty currently associated with owning dollar securities. The officials said the borrower opted to raise funds in dollars, despite the currency's weakness, because it is the only market deep enough to accommodate an issue of that size. Japan Development Bank is not allowed to raise euroyen. Market sources said the deal is likely to be swapped into yen as the borrowers previous issues were. Late in the day, the deal was trading just inside its fees at less 1.75 less 1.55. Also issued today was a 40 mln dlr five-year offering from Toshiba International Finance (Netherlands) carrying a 7-3/8 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/2. Three equity linked dollar denominated deals were offered, the largest of which was a 200 mln dlr offering by Sekisui Chemical Co and guaranteed by Sanwa Bank Ltd. The issue has equity warrants attached and late in the day it was quoted on brokers' screens at 106-1/2, bid only. The Australian dollar market continued active, with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce offering a bond of 125 mln five-year with a zero coupon priced at 54. Late in the day, the deal was quoted at less 1-1/4 bid. A similar deal yesterday by Toronto Dominion, priced slightly higher at 54.37 pct for an effective yield of 13.52 pct, was quoted slightly lower at less 1.37 less 1.25 pct. Dealers said that investors are apparently willing to accept zero-coupon bonds yielding 50 to 100 basis points less than annual-pay bonds because their are tax benefits for retail buyers. Also, the bonds are more volatile and if interest rates fall in Australia as many analysts expect, the potential for capital gains is greater with a zero-coupon. The bonds are also better for those who expect the australian dlr to appreciate. Dealers said that the Australia dlr zero coupon bonds are apparently being placed with retail accounts on the European continent with very little placement being done in Japan. Euroyen issues sank slightly in line with prices on domestic Japanese bond markets but recovered in late trade as the yen soared. After the markets closed, the dollar fell to 144 yen. The European Investment Bank (EIB) issued a 40 mln euroyen issue paying 4-5/8 pct over seven years. This is the second seven-year yen issue in two days -- a sector of the yield curve in Japan that dealers feel has not yet become overpriced. REUTER 
GILLETTE CANADA ISSUES 70 MLN STG BOND

Gillette Canada Inc is issuing a 70 mln stg bond due October 30, 1993 carrying a coupon of 9-5/8 pct and priced at 101-1/2, Morgan Stanley Ltd said as lead manager. The issue is guaranteed by Gillette Co and is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 stg. Payment date is April 30 and there is a long first coupon. The issue will be listed in Luxembourg. There is a selling concession of 1-1/4 pct and a combined management and underwriting fee of 5/8 pct. REUTER 
GILLETTE CANADA ISSUES 70 MLN STG BOND

Gillette Canada Inc is issuing a 70 mln stg bond due October 30, 1993 carrying a coupon of 9-5/8 pct and priced at 101-1/2, Morgan Stanley Ltd said as lead manager. The issue is guaranteed by Gillette Co and is available in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 stg. Payment date is April 30 and there is a long first coupon. The issue will be listed in Luxembourg. There is a selling concession of 1-1/4 pct and a combined management and underwriting fee of 5/8 pct. Reuter 
WARD CRITICISES GUINNESS'S FEE COMPLAINT

Guinness Plc <GUIN.L> director Thomas Ward told a High Court hearing that the company's action against him and ex-chairman Ernest Saunders sought to give the impression of an international hunt for Ward's 5.2 mln stg fee in connection with the Distillers Co Plc <DIST.L> takeover, the Press Association news agency reported. In a sworn statement, Ward, a U.S. Lawyer, said Guinness had failed to acknowledge that his attornies in March had offered to put the money, less tax and various expenses, into an escrow account where it could only be touched under agreed circumstances. Ward said Guinness had made a transparent attempt to belittle his services, the PA reported. "I wish to emphasise that the fee paid for my services was, when considered out of context, admittedly very large." But every aspect of the (Distillers) bid - the size of the target, the benefit to Guinness from success, the potential damage from failure, the difficulties of the issues raised and the cost for all services - were not merely large but virtually unprecedented in the history of English takeovers," Ward said. Failure would have cost Guinness between 25 mln stg and 100 mln stg, he added. Ward said it was his idea to have a merger agreement with Distillers under which Distillers agreed to pay Guinness's bid costs, the PA reported. Ward's statement was read to the court by his lawyer Peter Curry. Ward and ex-Guinness chairman Saunders want to end a temporary court freeze of their assets up to the disputed amount of the 5.2 mln stg fee which Guinness is trying to recover. Guinness acquired Distillers in a fierecly fought 2.7 billion stg battle during 1986. The U.K. Government is also probing the affair and has yet to report. Reuter 
GREYCOAT GROUP SEEKS TWO FINANCINGS

U.K. Property company Greycoat Group Plc is seeking two financings, one for 120 mln stg and the other for 16 mln stg, in connection with its Embankment Place development above and around Charing Cross station in London, banking sources said. The first transaction, a 120 mln stg credit, will be arranged by N.M. Rothschild and Sons Ltd and Bank of Tokyo International Ltd on behalf of a special purpose Greycoat subsidiary yet to be incorporated. It matures in June 1993 but will be extendible by up to two years to June 1995 at the option of the borrower. The first credit, a project financing, will carry a basic margin of 5/8 point over London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR), with an additional 1/4 pct per annum payable on outstanding amounts to the extent that the property is not substantially pre-let. In addition, if the property is pre-sold while amounts are still outstanding, the basic margin will be reduced to 1/2 point over LIBOR, the banking sources said. For a one year extension of the maturity an extra 1/8 point margin will be paid, with a further 1/8 point if the maturity is lengthened for the optional second year. There will be a commitment fee of 1/4 pct per annum on available amounts and of 1/8 pct on unavailable amounts, the sources said. Rothschild is sole agent for this transaction. The second transaction, a 16 mln stg credit for the purpose of working capital, is being arranged by Rothschild alone on behalf of the Greycoat Group Plc itself. It will be secured on a property called Brettenham House. The margin will be 1/2 point over LIBOR in years one to four, 5/8 point over LIBOR in years five and six and 3/4 point over LIBOR thereafter. The credit will mature in June, 1995. The sources said that a commitment fee of 20 basis points will be payable on the available tranche, with 10 basis points on unavailable amounts. Reuter 
CONSENSUS SEEN ON TIN PACT EXTENSION

The quarterly session of the International Tin Council (ITC) continued without formal agreement on an extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA), but delegates said it was apparent there was a general consensus the Agreement should be prolonged. Some delegations are still awaiting formal instructions from capitals, but informally most have indicated they favour an extension, delegates said. This afternoon's session was used by delegates to seek further clarification on some of the issues involved, and to discuss internal matters. Some sources were optimistic a resolution on an extension could be passed tomorrow but others suggested a special session would be convened to adopt the resolution after the Association of Tin Producing Countries meeting April 14 to 16. The full Council session resumes tomorrow at 1330 GMT after a European Community coordination meeting at 1100. Reuter 
REUTERS LAUNCHES VIDEOTEXT SERVICE IN U.K.

Reuters Holdings Plc <RTRS.L> said it has launched its colour videotext service, Reuter News-Watch, in Britain to service the customers of hotels, restaurants, airports and banks. News-Watch subscribers can insert their own advertisements and announcements for display. The service uses information from the Reuter database of news, prices and displays. It carries the latest news and sport from around the world, financial rates and prices, weather forecasts and horoscopes. News-Watch, already available in most West European countries, will go worldwide this year. Reuter 
BERMUDA SEEKS 40 MLN DLR REVOLVING CREDIT

The Government of Bermuda is seeking a 40 mln dlr, seven year revolving credit, which will be the only credit outstanding in its own name, N.M. Rothschild and Sons Ltd said as arranger and agent. The credit will pay a margin of 20 basis points over U.S. Dollar London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) and will incorporate a tender panel for U.S. Dlr advances. There is a 10 basis point annual facility fee in years one to four, rising to 12-1/2 points thereafter. A 7-1/2 basis point participation fee is payable on the transaction, which started syndication this week. Reuter 
WESTLAND TO CUT A THIRD OF HELICOPTER WORKFORCE

U.K. Helicopter maker <Westland Plc> will reduce the 6,000 workforce of its helicopter division by around a third over the next few weeks, a company spokesman said. He said the decision was in part the result of a 400 mln stg government order for military helicopters announced earlier. The spokesman said the order had reduced the number of redundancies necessary but was not large enough to avoid job losses. The total group workforce is 11,000. The company was rescued last year by a consortium of United Technologies Corp's <UTX.N> Sikorsky unit and Fiat SpA <FIAT.MI>. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET DEFICIT FORECAST AT 400 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it forecast a shortage of around 400 mln stg in the money market today. Among the main factors affecting liquidity, bills maturing in official hands and the take-up of treasury bills will drain some 1.085 billion stg. Partly offsetting these outflows, a fall in note circulation will add some 340 mln stg, exchequer transactions around 300 mln and bankers' balances above target about 50 mln. REUTER 
DEUTSCHE BANK FINANCE UNIT HAS AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

Deutsche Bank Finance NV Curacao is issuing a 100 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 14, 1990 paying 14-1/8 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead manager Deutsche Bank Capital Markets Ltd said. The bond, guaranteed by parent Deutsche Bank AG, is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Fees total 1-1/2 pct, comprising one pct selling concession and 1/2 pct management and underwriting combined. REUTER 
UBS UNIT ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Union Bank of Switzerland NV is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due June 1, 1992 paying 4-3/8 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager Union Bank of Switzerland (Securities) Ltd said. The issue has a call option and put option after four years at par and is guaranteed by Union Bank of Switzerland. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The issue is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is June 1. REUTER 
ST.GOBAIN UNIT ISSUES ECU BOND WITH GOLD WARRANTS

St.Gobain Netherlands, guaranteed by Cie de St.Gobain, is issuing a 75 mln ECU bond with gold warrants attached, due May 6, 1992 carrying a 4-1/2 pct coupon and priced at par, lead manager Salomon Brothers International Ltd said. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Listing is in Luxembourg. Each 1,000 ECU bond carries one gold warrant exercisable from May 6, 1987 until May 6, 1990 entitling the holder to purchase one ounce at an exercise price of 490 dlrs. REUTER 
EURO-MEDIUM TERM NOTES POISED FOR GROWTH

Euro-medium term notes, a recent phenomenon in the international capital markets, are hardly attracting a flood of issuers but investment bankers are doing their best to breath life into the market. Medium term notes (MTNs) have met with staggering success in the U.S. Market where total outstandings have grown to around 50 billion dlrs since 1983, the year they took hold as a new financing vehicle to bridge the gap between commercial paper and longer term bonds. Convinced they are here to stay, investment bankers are attempting to adapt MTNs for the euromarket. Ralph Bunche, a vice president of Morgan Stanley International, predicted at a recent Euromoney conference on MTNs here that they will become the predominant instrument for raising funds in the late 1980's and 1990's. "It (the MTN market) will even surpass the bond market," he said. Other bankers took exception with the degree to which MTNs will grow. But they generally agreed that these instruments provide the borrower with greater flexibility and lower costs than a traditional bond. The trick is in convincing European borrowers it is worth arranging a program and, having accomplished that, to persaude European investors -- whose preferences differ from their U.S. Counterparts -- to buy the securities. Discussions with bankers proved one thing. No one is exactly sure how to proceed with structuring and marketing these issues. To date only 13 Euro-MTN programs have been announced but only a few have been activated, such as those for a unit of PepsiCo Inc and another for AB Electrolux. Several firms have devised different structures for Euro-MTNs and defend their structures adamantly. The PepsiCo notes, for example, are sold on a continuously offered basis. This involves a small amount of new notes with similar maturities constantly on offer at current market rates. The Electrolux program uses multi-tranche tap notes devised by Merrill Lynch. Under this structure, an initial tranche of a minimum 50 mln dlrs has a fixed rate of interest and maturity. The borrower then issues additional notes in this category up to a pre-determined maximum. Those who defend the continuously offered method, such as Wendy Dietze, a Salomon Brothers Inc vice president, point to the flexibility they offer in interest rate and maturity. Furthermore, she believes this structure offers the European investor greater confidence in market liquidity -- a major concern for these buyers. Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd's Kevin Regan defends the medium-tranche tap notes concept saying it offers comparable liquidity. But he also said that this structure may not be the right option for all borrowers. Peter Mortimer, a partner in the law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy, noted that legal requirements could well determine which structure is chosen. He noted that the tap system allows a more clearly defined "lock-up" period as each tranche has a specific maturity. In the case of notes issued by U.S. Borrowers, the "lock-up" period is the 90 days after the completion of a series during which time a security cannot be sold back to the U.S. Or to U.S. Investors. However, he said that the Securities and Exchange Commission is reviewing its current regulations on the ownership of foreign securities by U.S. Citizens and that some softening in the rules could come in the not too distant future. For their part borrowers say they feel a bit like guinea pigs. Petter Skouen, executive vice president of the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB), noted that a few weeks ago NIB would have said it was disappointed with its Euro-MTN program, but that the success of a recent issue changed their minds. He conceded that in retrospect it would have been wiser to establish separate programs for the euromarket and the U.S. Domestic market, rather than try to extend the U.S. Issue globally. Under NIB's 200 mln dlr program, 100 mln has been sold in the U.S. And 25 mln in Europe. REUTER 
LONDON GOLD MORNING FIX HIGHEST SINCE OCTOBER

Gold bullion continued to move higher supported by good general buying and was fixed this morning at 436.50 dlrs, 268.368 stg, an ounce, up from Friday's close of 432.00/50, dealers said. The setting was the highest since October 8 as gold built on Friday's gains, which had been based on the weakness of the dollar and fears of a trade war between the United States and Japan. It opened slightly firmer at 433.50/434.00 and moved up steadily during the morning supported by commission house and trade buying, dealers said. Dealers said there was resistance around 440.00 but with sentiment still firm some traders believe the rally may even take gold as high as 500 dlrs. Platinum was fixed this morning at 583.50 dlrs an ounce, up from Friday's close of 578.50/580.50, and also the highest setting since October. REUTER 
U.K. MARCH PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.3 PCT

The price index for sales of manufactured goods in the U.K. Rose a provisional, unadjusted 0.3 pct in March after an identical rise in February, Department of Trade and Industry figures show. The index for materials and fuel purchased by manufacturing industry fell a provisional and unadjusted 1.1 pct after a 1.7 pct fall in February. The Department said the year-on-year rise in producer prices in March was a provisional 3.7 pct, compared with a provisional 4.2 pct increase in the year to end-February. The index for output prices, non-seasonally adjusted, was put at a provisional 149.7 in March after 149.3 in February. The index for input prices, also not seasonally adjusted, was set at 128.2 in March after February's 129.6. The 1.1 pct fall in input prices between February and March was mainly due to a seasonal fall in industrial electricity costs and lower scheduled prices for petroleum products, the Department said. The Department said these falls were only partly offset by a rise in prices of home-produced food manufacturing materials. The seasonally adjusted index for input prices showed a 0.2 pct rise between February and March. Year-on-year, the input price index was down 0.7 pct in March after a 2.8 pct drop in February. REUTER 
TREASURY CORP OF NSW ISSUES AUSTRALIAN DLR BOND

The New South Wales Treasury Corporation is issuing a 100 mln Australian dlr eurobond due May 27, 1992 paying 14-1/4 pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct, lead manager County Natwest Capital Markets said. The non-callable bond is guaranteed by the crown-in-right of New South Wales. The selling concession is 1-3/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 Australian dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is May 27. REUTER 
LME CLARIFIES NEW ALUMINIUM CONTRACT DETAILS

The London Metal Exchange (LME) has issued a note clarifying details on its new high grade aluminium contract, in response to questions from members following the announcement of the contract, due to start June 1. All deliverable shapes of aluminium under the high grade primary aluminium contract (minimum 99.7 pct purity) will also be deliverable against the standard primary aluminium contract (min 99.5 pct), the LME said. Sows will not constitute good delivery against the standard contract until September 1, and 99.5 pct purity sows are not good delivery and cannot be placed on LME warrant. The dollar quotation for the high grade contract will be in multiples of one U.S. Dollar but carries may be made at 50 cents for even tonnages only. Singapore, which is the first port warehouse outside Europe to be used as an LME delivery point, will be used for high grade metal only and the rent imposed by owners Steinweg will be 1.05 U.S. Dlr a tonne per week, the LME said. The LME Board, in response to representation from the trade, agreed to annul from LME contracts the minimum weight requirements of 450 kilos for T-bars and 250 kilos for sows, effective for high grade on June 1 and for standard on July 24. REUTER 
NORTH YEMEN BOUGHT WHITE SUGAR AT TENDER - TRADE

North Yemen at its weekend tender bought white sugar from a French operator acting on behalf of a Swiss house at 214.70 dlrs a tonne c and f, traders said. The amount bought was not immediately available, although the country had sought 30,000 tonnes of June arrival whites, they said. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 75 MLN STG ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it had provided the money market with 75 mln stg help in the morning session. This compares with the Bank's estimate that the system would face a shortage of around 400 mln stg today. The central bank bought bank bills outright comprising two mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct, 15 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct and 58 mln stg in band three at 9-11/16 pct. REUTER 
SAUDI ARABIA SEEKING RBD PALM OLEIN

Saudi Arabia is in the market for 4,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein for June 1/10 shipment, traders said. REUTER 
METAL BULLETIN ZINC PRODUCER PRICE

The London based trade journal "METAL BULLETIN'S" average producer price of good ordinary brand zinc for week ended April 10 is 790.00 dlrs per tonne. Reuter 
U.K. PRODUCER PRICES SEEN MOVED BY TECHNICALITIES

U.K. Producer price data for March were roughly as expected after taking into account technical factors which affected the year-on-year outcome, economic analysts said. The figures showed a 0.3 pct provisional, non-seasonally adjusted rise in output prices in March, unchanged from February and close to the average for the last six months. The year-on-year rise was put at 3.7 pct, down from 4.2 pct in February. But Chris Tinker, economist at brokerage house Phillips and Drew, said the drop in the year-on-year rate mainly reflected a rise in excise duties which affected the index in March last year. He cautioned that it was dangerous to read too much into the monthly figure, adding that a rise of only 0.2 pct in April would take the year-on-year rise back above 4.2 pct. Analysts also noted that a drop in manufacturers' input prices was almost entirely due to anticipated seasonal factors such as a fall in industrial electricity costs. Duncan Squire of Lloyds Merchant Bank said the figures were slightly disappointing in that the strengthening of sterling had not yet reduced input prices as much as expected. Both he and Tinker said this factor should help keep input costs down over the next few months, although Tinker added that last year's fall in oil prices is now about to drop out of the year-on-year comparisons and is likely to lead to a return to rises in the index rather than falls. REUTER 
SAUNDERS DENIES "PAPER SHREDDING" ALLEGATIONS

Former Guinness Plc <GUIN.L> chairman Ernest Saunders dismissed allegations he ordered the shredding of documents in the early stages of a U.K. Investigation as "completely untrue," the Press Association news agency reported. The allegations were made by his former personal assistant Margaret McGrath, in a statement to the High Court on Friday. Saunders' reply was read out by his lawyer at the start of the fourth day of a hearing, on an application by Saunders and U.S. Lawyer Thomas Ward for the discharge of "asset-freezing" orders obtained by Guinness on March 18. McGrath alleged that among the documents destroyed were papers from the files on the <Distillers Co Plc> bid, as well as diaries, correspondence and an address book. The temporary orders froze property owned by the two men valued about 5.2 mln stg, the sum paid by Guinness into a Jersey bank last May during the Distillers takeover. They are also contesting orders requiring them to disclose the whereabouts of the money and hand it back to Guinness lawyers. REUTER 
MORE BRITISH GOLD ARTICLES HALLMARKED

The number of British gold articles hallmarked during the first quarter of this year rose by more than 11 pct on the corresponding period last year, figures released by the Assay Offices of Great Britain show. More than 2.5 mln British items were hallmarked during the quarter, up 11.1 pct on the same year ago period. The four Assay Offices also marked 832,222 foreign gold articles, up 2.5 pct on last year. In weight terms the 7.19 mln grams of British gold assayed was a 15.3 pct increase, while the 2.95 mln grams of foreign gold represented a rise of 3.1 pct. British silver goods assayed totalled 698,132, an increase of 6.2 pct but only 78,457 foreign items were marked, a fall of 11.1 pct. A total of 10,968 kilos of silver were assayed, an 11.1 pct rise. The number of platinum items marked fell 12.5 pct to 1,785, while in weight terms the total slipped 8.1 pct to 9,849 grams. A spokesman for the Assay Offices of Great Britain said he was particularly encouraged to see the percentage increase for British manufactured goods. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 68 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the market with a further 68 mln stg assistance this afternoon, bringing its total assistance on the day to 143 mln stg. Shortly before, the Bank said it had revised its estimate of the shortage up to 450 mln stg from the earlier forecast of 400 mln. During the afternoon, the bank bought 22 mln stg of band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct and two mln stg of local authority bills plus 44 mln stg of bank bills in band four at 9-11/16 pct. These rates were in all cases unchanged from previous intervention levels. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN LATE HELP OF 210 MLN STG

The Bank of England said it gave the market late assistance of around 210 mln stg, bringing its total help on the day to some 353 mln stg. This compares with the Bank's estimate of the liquidity shortage of around 450 mln stg, raised from its early forecast of 400 mln stg. REUTER 
ENEL ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN EUROBOND

Italy's state-owned Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica (ENEL) is issuing a 15 billion yen eurobond due May 27, 1994 paying 4-3/4 pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct, joint-lead bookrunner IBJ International Ltd said. Morgan Stanley International is the other joint-lead bookrunner and appears on the left in documentation. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of one mln yen and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is May 27. REUTER 
PAKISTAN REPORTEDLY BOUGHT WHITE SUGAR AT TENDER

Pakistan is reported to have bought 100,000 tonnes of white sugar at its weekend tender from a North Korean operator, traders said. The purchase, believed priced around 210 dlrs a tonne cost and freight for fine/medium grain, was due to be shipped for arrival in May (30,000 tonnes), in June (45,000) and in July (25,000 tonnes), they said. Reuter 
 bank of england to auction up to 3.25 billion stg in gilts, first auction in mid-may



JOHN MOWLEM ARRANGES 50 MLN STERLING CP PROGRAM

John Mowlem Plc, the U.K. Building and construction company, has arranged a 50 mln stg commercial paper program, with an option to issue notes in U.S. Dollars, Mowlem treasurer Philip Ridal said. He said the company hopes to make the first drawings in May to take advantage of lower borrowing costs and the greater flexibility afforded by this program. It also should increase the company's arbitrage opportunities, he added. The program was arranged by Kleinwort Benson Ltd, which will act as a dealer along with Morgan Grenfell and Co Ltd and Swiss Bank Corp International Ltd. The sterling notes will be sold in denominations of one mln and 500,000 stg and will have maturities of seven to 364 days. Ridal said the new program will complement a note issuance facility the company arranged last year and also increase the investor base. REUTER 
SAUDI ARABIA BUYS RBD PALM OLEIN

Saudi Arabia bought 4,000 tonnes of Malaysian refined bleached deodorised palm olein for June 1/10 shipment at around 356 dlrs per tonne cost and freight Jeddah, traders said. Reuter 
PRIMARY GILTS DEALERS NEED NOT BUY AT AUCTIONS

Primary dealers in U.K. Government gilts will not be required to underwrite the government's offering of its securities when the first auctions begin in Mid-May, the Bank of England said. In an official notice released today, the Bank said "There will be no formal or informal underwriting arrangement for the auctions but the Bank encourages all gilt-edged market makers, as part of their commitment to the market, to participate actively in the auction process." The Bank was originally believed to have favoured requiring the dealers to underwrite auctions, which are patterned after those in the U.S. Treasury market. However, the Treasury was believed to have baulked at the request by the 27 market makers for an allotment commission which would discourage the largest institutional investors from placing orders for new stock directly through the Bank of England, thus denying primary dealers some of their best customers. Commission would have been passed along to customers who did place orders via the primary dealers, making it less expensive to buy through them than to go directly to the Bank. Market sources said the Bank had, in its discussions with the dealers about the upcoming auctions, agreed that the allotment commission was reasonable if the dealers had a concurrent commitment to buy at the auction regardless of market conditions. Indeed, the Bank and the gilts dealers are believed to be disappointed that the Treasury has not agreed to go along with the plan. However, in its paper, the Bank suggested that any conditions applied for the first few auctions may be abandoned or modified in future sales of gilts if they prove inefficient or unwieldy. Among other items in the document, the Bank said its first auction will consist of up to 1.25 billion stg in conventional short-dated stock and have a maturity of seven years or less. Subsequent auctions to be held in the 1987-88 financial year would first be of up to one billion stg of long-dated stock having a maturity of 15 years or longer and then of up to one billion stg of medium dated stock of seven to 15 years in maturity. The remainder of the gilt-edged funding program would be met by traditional tap offerings of stock via the government broker. To protect the buyers of the newly auctioned stock, the Bank has agreed to establish a so-called fallow period, a 28-day period during which it agrees not to issue any new stock of the same type, and it will not necessarily resume selling the stock once the fallow period expires. In the event that prices offered for the stock to be sold are substantially out of line with market conditions, the Bank will agree to take the stock onto its own books. The bank would then be free to sell the stock during the fallow period but not at a price below the minimum tender price. The Bank also said that at least initially, auctions will be alloted on a bid price basis, a system under which bidders are allotted stock at the price which they bid. However, the Bank said it reserves the right to limit any money market maker from buying more than 25 pct of a single auction. The Bank is widely believed to be concerned about preventing a single market maker from cornering a stock to drive the price up. The Bank has repeatedly signalled its intention to prevent dealers from cornering the market in a stock, issuing additional stock, on occasion, to end a market shortage. The Bank has also agreed to publish information about the auction results as soon as possible after the sale is complete, which is widely expected to be on the same day. Information to be released will include the amount of stock allotted in terms of both competitive and non-competitive bids, and the highest, lowest and average price of the successful bids. REUTER 
NOMURA REPACKAGES DANISH ISSUE AS ZERO-COUPON BOND

Nomura International Ltd said it is using a special purpose issuing vehicle, "Lives 2 Ltd," to repackage part of the Denmark's 7-1/8 pct dollar straight issue launched by Nomura on January 8 this year and due 1992, into a zero coupon 17 billion yen bond priced at 82-1/4 pct. The notes and swap agreement are secured by a charge on 97 mln dlrs of the Denmark bond. The new bond is due March 5, 1992. Payment date on the issue, which will be listed in Luxembourg, is April 24 and the first coupon will be short. Fees comprise 85 basis points for selling with 70 for management and underwriting. Denominations are 10 mln yen. REUTER 
BANK OF ENGLAND TO MONITOR WHEN-ISSUED TRADING

The Bank of England will step up reporting requirements for primary dealers in U.K. Government gilts during the when-issued trading period in between the date an auction is announced and the date the sale is actually held. In its document on the auctions, the Bank said "The Bank is content for such (when-issued) trading to cevelop subject to certain conditions, in particular for predential supervision of the credit risk to which the gilt-edged market makers and Inter-dealer brokers may become exposed." The Bank is widely expected to require dealers to report wehn-issued trading positions on a daily basis. When-issued trading presents certain unusual risks because dealers are buying and selling a security that technically does not exist although there is no uncertainty about when it will be issued. Still, the fact there is no physical delivery possible presents certain credit risks as well. The Bank is widely expected to expand its reporting requiremenmts for unsettled trades, requiring firms to report unsettled when-issued trades one day after they occur. Normally, unsettled trades must be reported three days after they occur. REUTER 
DOLLAR STRAIGHT BONDS END LOWER, TEXACO UNTRADED

The dollar straight sector of the eurobond market ended lower after another nervous day's trading, with many operators keeping to the sidelines ahead of tomorrow's U.S. Trade figures for February, dealers said. Prices of longer dated issues ended 1/2 or 5/8 point lower, while short dates were 1/8 to 3/8 point easier. Bonds for Texaco Inc units hardly traded during the day following the weekend news that the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in another twist to its long running dispute with Pennzoil Co, dealers added. The Chapter 11 filing means that Texaco will not be paying interest on its eurobonds. Dealers in the straight bonds noted that the market in them had been basis only for some time prior to the weekend's news. "It wasn't a true market, someone asked you a price and you just gave them an idea," one said. However, the company's convertible bonds had been trading since the company's share price provided a benchmark to which dealers could establish a proper price level. The company has two actively traded convertibles outstanding, a 500 mln dlr bond due 1994 which pays 11-3/4 pct and a one billion dlr deal, also due 1994, paying 11-7/8 pct. Traders even disagreed about last week's closing levels for the convertible bonds, but a median appeared to be around 97 to 99 pct. Today, one trader said they were indicated initially at 65 to 70 pct before ending at some 79 83 pct. But he added, "That's only an idea. There's no real market today. I've dealt once during the day, I'm not going to say at what level." Other dealers were reluctant even to give an indication of the bonds' levels. Dealers said the market in all Texaco deals will almost certainly remain on an indicated, or negotiated, basis until the events of the weekend are further clarified. The primary market had a steady day, with the Australian dollar and the yen sectors again seeing the most activity, dealers said. Deutsche Bank Finance NV Curacao became the first of three issuers in the Australian dollar market during the morning with a 100 mln dlr bond due 1990 paying 14-1/8 pct and priced at 100-1/4 pct. The issue was lead managed by Deutsche Bank Capital Markets (DBCM) and guaranteed by Deutsche Bank itself. A DBCM official said the firm had placed 60 mln Australian dlrs of the issue itself and quoted the deal at less one less 7/8 pct, comfortably inside the 1-1/2 pct total fees. The State Bank of Victoria issued a 50 mln Australian dlr bond paying 14-1/2 pct over three years and priced at 101-3/8 pct. Commerzbank AG was sole manager for the deal, which was offered on one broker screen at less 1-1/2 pct. The day's other borrower in this sector was the New South Wales Treasury Corporation guaranteed by the crown-in-right of New South Wales. The five year bond pays 14-1/4 pct and was priced at 101-7/8 pct. Lead manager was County Natwest Capital Markets. It was quoted at less 1-7/8 less 1-3/4 pct, inside the two pct total fees. Secondary market Australian dlr bonds ended little changed on the day, with dealers saying that operators are awaiting the Australian trade figures for March. A deficit of some 800 mln to one billion dlrs was expected by one house active in the sector. Union Bank of Switzerland (Securities) Ltd lead managed a 15 billion yen bond for Union Bank of Switzerland NV. The five year deal pays 4-3/8 pct and features a put and call option at par after four years. Priced at 101-5/8 pct, the issue was quoted at less 1-1/4 pct bid on the grey market compared with the total fees of 1-5/8 pct. Ente Nazionale per l'Energia Elettrica issued a 15 billion yen bond due 1994 at 4-3/4 pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct. The deal was quoted on the 1-7/8 pct total fees. Elsewhere, Alza Corp issued a 75 mln dlr convertible bond due 2002 through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The par priced issue has an indicated coupon of between 5-1/2 and 5-3/4 pct. REUTER 
LATEST BRITISH POLL HAS THATCHER STILL WAY AHEAD

The latest British opinion poll gave Margaret Thatcher's Conservative party a huge 17 point lead over the opposition -- the highest rating yet for the prime minister who is seeking a record third consecutive term. The poll in today's Sun popular tabloid showed the Conservatives could win a solid majority of 125 seats in Parliament in the next general election. Thatcher must call an election by June 1988 but is widely expected to call it this year. The survey gave the Conservatives 44 pct of the votes, left-wing Labour and the centrist Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance 27 pct each. Reuter 
LATEST POLL PUTS THATCHER'S CONSERVATIVES AHEAD

The latest British opinion poll, gave Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives a 17-point lead over the opposition -- the highest rating yet for the Prime Minister who is seeking a record third consecutive term. The poll in today's Sun tabloid showed the Conservatives could win a majority of 125 seats in Parliament in the next general elections. Thatcher must call the elections by June 1988, but is expected to do so this year. The survey, conducted between April 10 and 12 among 1,000 adults eligible to vote, gave the Conservatives 44 pct, and left-wing Labour and the centrist Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance 27 pct each. 
PAKISTAN RETENDERS TODAY FOR RBD PALM OIL - TRADE

Pakistan will retender today for 6,000 to 12,000 tonnes of refined bleached deodorised palm oil for first half May shipment, traders said. REUTER 
PAKISTAN BUYS 6,000 TONNES RBD PALM OIL - TRADERS

Pakistan bought 6,000 tonnes of rbd palm oil at its import tender today for first half May shipment, traders said. The price was believed to be in the region of 345.50 dlrs per tonne cost and freight, but confirmation is awaited, they said. Pakistan sought to buy up to 12,000 tonnes for first half May and has not said when it is likely to tender for the balance. REUTER 
ESSO UK PLANNING SLIGHTLY LESS OIL EXPLORATION

<Esso U.K. Plc>'s 1987 exploration scheme involves less activity than last year, said a company spokeswoman. She confirmed that Esso UK, a member of Exxon Corp <XON>, was likely to participate in 15 to 20 wells this year, against 25 wells last year. Total capital expenditure budget this year, however, will be similar to last year's budget of about 450 mln stg, she said. She added that exploration and production expenditure last year was 370 mln stg and Esso UK turned the year with 1.2 billion stg of forward capital commitment. The spokeswoman said 30 to 40 pct in cost savings had been made for development plans for Kittiwake - the only field in the Shell-Esso Gannet North Sea oil and gas cluster still being considered for development over the next few years. Esso UK and <Shell U.K. Exploration and Production>, part of the Shell Transport and Trading <SC.L> group, have so far spent between 300 to 350 mln stg on Kittiwake, with recoverable reserves of some 70 mln barrels. Cost savings were also made on the 40 to 45 mln barrel Osprey field which is expected to cost at least 150 mln stg to develop. Development of both fields are expected to go ahead this year or early next year, she said. REUTER 
BRITAIN CALLS FOR FIGHT AGAINST PROTECTIONISM

British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe called on industrial and developing countries to combat trade protectionism and remove barriers which impede free trading in agricultural products. Howe said in an address to the annual meeting of the U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) that success in fighting protectionism hinges on the current Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. He said Britain is committed to resisting and combatting protectionism because free trade is vital to Britain where 30 pct of the gnp comes from trade in goods and services. Howe urged developing countries to open up their markets, remove measures distorting free trade in services and provide protection for intellectual property rights. He said industrial nations should also adopt macro-economic policies which help reduce trade imbalances and promote stable currency relationships. Howe said the agricultural industry, plagued by surpluses and falling commodity prices in recent years, is over subsidised and over protected. But the problem of farm surpluses must be tackled despite the fact that it is politically difficult for any government to reverse the trend of growing farm subsidies. "This problem of over-subsidisation and over-protection of agriculture will dog us in the years ahead and it will need the sustained application of all our energy and our imagination to find solutions," Howe said. REUTER 
SMALL QUANTITY OF U.K. WHEAT SOLD TO HOME MARKET

A total of 2,769 tonnes of British intervention feed wheat, out of an available 57,300 tonnes, was sold at today's tender for the home market, the Home Grown Cereals Authority, HGCA, said. Price details were not reported. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 183 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it had given the money market a further 183 mln stg assistance in the afternoon session. This takes the Bank's total help so far today to 561 mln stg and compares with its estimate of a shortage of some 550 mln stg in the system which it earlier revised up from 400 mln. The central bank purchased bank bills outright comprising 80 mln stg in band one at 9-7/8 pct, eight mln stg in band two at 9-13/16 pct and 95 mln stg in band three at 9-3/4 pct. REUTER 
LEGAL DISPUTES FORCE NEW HOLDING COMPANY FOR LME

The London Metal Exchange (LME) said it has applied to form a new holding company because of uncertainties relating to lawsuits filed over the 1985 tin crisis. The new company, to be called The London Metal Exchange Ltd, would replace a two-tiered committee and board structure with a single managing board by the end of July. The exchange said it took the steps after the Securities and Investments Board said unresolved legal tussles resulting from the tin crisis of October 1985 might prevent acceptance of the LME's application to become a Recognized Investment Exchange. The exchange currently is run by The Metal Market and Exchange Company Ltd, which is facing a law suit linked to tin. The assets needed to run the exchange will be transferred to the new company at fair market value, it added. Reuter 
IBC COFFEE AUCTIONS TO START SOON - DAUSTER

The Brazilian Coffee Institute, IBC, plans to sell in a series of auctions over the next few weeks robusta coffee purchased in London last year, but details of where and when auctions will take place are still to be finalised, IBC president Jorio Dauster told reporters. The sales of 630,000 bags of robusta and an unspecified amount of Brazilian arabica coffee will take place over a minimum of six months but it is not decided where sales will take place or whether they will be held weekly or monthly. The amount offered at each sale has also not been set, but could be in the order of 100,000 bags, Dauster said. Reuter 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN FURTHER 518 MLN STG HELP

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with further assistance worth 518 mln stg this afternoon. It bought 349 mln stg of band one bank bills at 9-7/8 pct and 169 mln stg of band two bank bills at 9-13/16 pct. This brings its total assistance on the day to 543 mln stg compared with a liquidity shortage it has estimated at around 850 mln stg. REUTER 
GM, ISUZU IN U.K. TRUCK JOINT VENTURE

General Motors Corp's <GM> Bedford Trucks subsidiary has signed a memorandum of understanding with its affiliate Isuzu Motors Ltd <ISUM.T> to negotiate a van manufacturing joint venture in the U.K. The proposals would involve doubling output at the loss making plant at Luton in southern England to around 40,000 vans a year by 1990. Bedford, faced with reduced demand for heavy trucks in the last few years, stopped most of its heavy truck production at the end of 1986. GM would have a 60 pct stake in the venture and Izuzu 40 pct GM holds a 38.6 pct stake in Isuzu. Bedford already has a link with Izuzu under which it assembles some smaller Japanese vehicles in Britain. A Bedford spokesman said financial details of the deal had not yet been finalised although it was anticipated that the venture would start without debt. Currently the Luton van plant was estimated to be losing some 500,000 stg a week, he added. Bedford's other truck plant, which manufactures military vehicles and trucks in kit form for export, was not involved in the venture. Analysts said the deal was another attempt by U.K. Truck manufacturers to restructure operations and cope with heavy losses and low demand that have hit the market over the past few years. In February, state-owned Rover Group Plc <BLLL.L> formed a joint venture with <Van Doorne's Bedrijswagenfabriek Daf BV> for truck manufacture, with Daf owning 60 pct. Last year, Ford Motor Co's <F.N> U.K. Subsidiary formed a joint venture with Fiat SpA's <FIAT.MI> 's <Iveco BV> for the supply and marketing of small commercial vehicles in Britain. Reuter 
TRADERS CONFIRM SOME INDIAN PALM OLEIN PURCHASES

Traders said the Indian State Trading Corporation (STC) bought three 6,000 tonne cargoes of refined bleached deodorised palm olein at its import tender today. They also said the STC is still in the market and additional business may be concluded over the weekend. The confirmed business comprised two cargoes of rbd olein for June shipment at 351.50 dlrs per tonne and one July at 352 dlrs cif, all on 30 pct counter trade. Reuter 
GERMAN INTERVENTION SUGAR FOR EXPORT - LDN TRADE

The most likely reason for West German producers withdrawing white sugar from intervention stores is that they already have, or are reasonably certain of, obtaining European Community (EC) export licences for it, traders said. They were responding to EC Commission sources in Brussels saying West German producers have withdrawn most of the 79,250 tonnes of the sugar they put into intervention on April 1. The traders said it is also likely that French producers, who put over 700,000 tonnes into intervention, will withdraw a significant proportion of this for the same reason before they are due to accept payment for the sugar in early May. Earlier this week traders said the stepping up of the level of export licences being granted by the EC at recent tenders, with generous subsidies, had been due to producer threats to leave the sugar in intervention and to a desire to move most of the old crop sugar before the new crop tenders start in May. The EC has so far granted licences for 2,467,970 tonnes out of around 3.1 mln tonnes targetted for export in the 1986/87 series of tenders. This would indicate the likelihood of high tonnages continuing to be moved over the next few tenders and subsidies also remaining high in order to attract producer bids for the export licences, traders said. Reuter 
EC MINISTERS LIKELY TO CRITICISE FINANCE IDEAS

Plans for a new-style European Community (EC) free of damaging budget wrangles receive their first full review from EC foreign ministers today, but are unlikely to gather much support. Diplomats said key EC capitals would voice strong criticism of proposals that would lead to a sharp increase in EC budget payments by bringing member states" contributions more into line with national wealth. They said the EC"s current paymasters, Britain, France, and West Germany, would lead the opposition to the plans, designed to enable the community meet the challenges of the 1990s. Faced with a budget deficit this year of at least five billion dlrs, EC Commission President Jacques Delors called in February for a radical overhaul of the EC financing system. Such action was necessary, he argued, to end a damaging cycle of annual budget crises and ensure cash for technological research programs and regional and social spending projects. Ironically, diplomats said, the move could spark exactly the type of row it was intended to avoid with industrially developed northern states demanding assurances the new cash would not be swallowed up by the poorer southern members. Delors" plans, by linking a country"s contributions to its Gross National Product (GNP), would over the next five years add some 18 billion dlrs to the present budget of 34 billion. Currently, contributions are calculated on a percentage of Value Added Tax (VAT) returns. Under the new scheme, all countries would pay one pct of their VAT receipts to Brussels. Extra cash would then be raised in line with needs by a levy on the difference between a country"s total VAT receipts and its GNP. London is one of the most resolutely opposed countries to the scheme, arguing instead that money should be made available from deep cutbacks in the EC"s heavily-subsidised farm sector. Unofficially many EC capitals secretly support the wearisome budget wrangling, taking the line that the highly diverse 12-nation Community can only take tough decisions when forced to do so. The issue is further complicated by a possible general election in Britain and acceptance that the EC problems cannot seriously be addressed by London until those polls are out of the way. REUTER 
NEW POLL PUTS BRITISH CONSERVATIVES WELL AHEAD

Britain's ruling Conservatives maintained a commanding lead in a new opinion poll, reinforcing views that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher is poised to call a general election in June. The Harris poll published in the Observer newspaper gave the Conservatives the support of 42 pct of those questioned, Labour 31 pct, and the Liberal-Social Democratic Alliance trailing with 25 pct. This would give the Conservatives a 94-seat overall majority in the House of Commons. Reuter 
BANK OF ENGLAND DOES NOT INTERVENE IN MONEY MARKET

The Bank of England said it did not intervene in the money market during the morning. It also said that it had raised its estimate of the liquidity shortage in the market to 450 mln stg from 400 mln. REUTER 
WORKERS VOTE TO LEAVE CATERPILLAR <CAT> PLANT

Strikers at the Caterpillar Inc tractor plant near Glasgow, due to be closed by the U.S.-owned firm, voted to end their occupation of the factory after more than three months. A meeting attended by 700 of the plant's 1,200 workers approved an agreement reached with management on Thursday after four days of talks. Production will resume today. The agreement calls for the establishment of a working group of representatives from both sides, which has been given until October 16 to find a new buyer for the factory. The company has promised that there will be no job losses before that date. Workers began their occupation on January 14 after Caterpillar said it planned to close the plant and lay off the entire work force. Reuter 
TIN PACT EXTENDED FOR TWO YEARS

The Sixth International Tin Agreement, ITA, has been extended for two years from July 1, 1987, the International Tin Council, ITC, said. The extension was formally agreed at a resumed special session of the council held here this morning and follows a session early this month when the council agreed in principle to extend the pact but had to await the formal approval of some member governments. The extension will enable the council to continue with its statistical work and studies of the tin industry. Reuter 
TOWNSEND FERRY INQUIRY TOLD BOW DOORS TO BLAME

The Zeebrugge ferry disaster, in which around 200 people drowned seven weeks ago, was almost certainly caused by the ship leaving port with its bow doors wide open, a British government inquiry was told. Lawyer David Steel, representing the government, told the opening session of a public inquiry into the March 6 tragedy that this was "the only tenable explanation." The ferry, the Herald of Free Enterprise, is owned by Townsend Thoresen, part of P and O's <PORL.L> subsidiary European Ferries Group. Steel, commissioner of wrecks for England and Wales, said the inquiry would probably conclude that the ferry capsized in calm seas and fair weather a mile outside the Belgian port when water poured into the car deck. "We think you will also conclude that the immediate cause of that was that the doors were open, he said. Steel told the tribunal it appeared no attempt was made to close either the inner or outer bow doors prior to what should have been a routine voyage to the English port of Dover, despite a provision in the ship's "Stability Booklet" that the doors were to be closed and kept closed. Reuter 
PERU FAILS TO BUY SUGAR AT WEEKEND TENDER

Peru failed to conclude any purchases at its weekend buying tender for two cargoes June shipment white sugar owing to the sharp price rise that day, traders said. However, the country had bought whites last week at 202.90 dlrs a tonne cost and freight for May/June, they said. Meanwhile there was no news of the recent tender quest by Algeria for 30,000 whites, the traders said. Reuter 
SYRIA SEEKING WHITE SUGAR NEXT MONTH - TRADE

Syria is holding a buying tender on May 6, for reply the next day, for 24,000 tonnes white sugar for shipment in two equal parts in June and July, traders said. Reuter 
UK NOT CONSIDERING RESTRICTING OIL OUTPUT

Britain is not considering any restriction of its present oil production, UK Energy Minister Alick Buchanan-Smith said. Speaking to reporters at the Offshore Technology Conference, Buchanan-Smith said, "No, we've made that absolutely clear, we see no reason for changing (the production level)." Earlier today, Buchanan-Smith gave the go-ahead to Mobil Corp for two new North Sea developments -- the Ness oil field and Beryl B subsea water injection project -- totalling 96 mln dlrs (60 mln British pounds). Unlike Norway, which has restricted its production of North Sea oil by 80,000 barrels a day in an effort to stabilize world oil prices, Britain has consistently refused to intervene in the market place. Buchanan-Smith also said there may be a demand-supply gap in the 1990s for natural gas in Britain, but added that it would probably be less than had been previously estimated. Norway is a major producer of natural gas and this morning Norway's Energy Minister Arne Oien said he was hoping Britain will take more Norwegian gas in the 1990s. Buchanan-Smith also said he expects to announce the results of the 10th licensing round of North Sea tracts next month. He said there had been 75 applications for 127 tracts by 84 companies, and added that he expects about 50 blocks will be licensed. He said the results would be in line with rounds prior to but not equal to the ninth two years ago, which was one of the most successful ever. Reuter 
U.K. TO SUPPLY WHEAT TO CHINA UNDER AID PROGRAM

The U.K. Will ship 39,250 tonnes of feed wheat to China this month as food aid at a cost to the British aid program of 3.4 mln stg, the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) said. The wheat will be supplied by grain exporter Ceres UK Ltd. As part of the European Community's obligation under the Food Aid Convention, the U.K. Is pledged to supply 110,700 tonnes of cereals each year. From this commitment the U.K. Makes allocations to the World Food Programme. REUTER 
GREEK BULK ORE CARRIER AGROUND IN ORINOCO RIVER

A Greek bulk carrier loaded with iron ore has run aground in Venezuela's Orinoco river, Lloyd's shipping services reports. The 74,596-dwt Andromachi is reported to have run aground near mile 149 on Monday and attempts to refloat the vessel using tugs has so far been unsuccessful, Lloyd's said. The Andromachi is managed by Theodore and Angelos Efstathiou of Piraeus. Reuter 
U.K. ECONOMY STRONGER THAN AT BUDGET, LAWSON SAYS

The U.K. Economy looks stronger than it did only last month, when the government unveiled its budget for fiscal 1987/88, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said. He told Parliament that "all the indicators that have been published since the budget confirm that, if anything, we are doing even better than I suggested then." The budget was unveiled on March 17. "The PSBR (Public Sector Borrowing Requirement) has come out lower than I forecast in the Budget. Inflation, too, is lower than I suggested ... (and) the current account of the balance of payments is also performing better, so far, than I predicted." The budget foresaw inflation easing to 4.0 pct at the end of this year after peaking at around 4.5 pct. Lawson said at the time that the overall 1986/87 PSBR would be around 4.0 billion stg. It was in fact lower, at 3.3 billion stg. He had also projected average GDP growth in calendar 1987 of 3.0 pct after 2.5 pct in 1986. Lawson today said "output appears to be rising, if anything, rather faster." Speaking during a House of Commons debate, he said, "by the end of this year we will have registered the longest period of steady growth, at close to 3.0 pct a year, that the British economy has known since the (Second World) War." The 1987/88 budget contained a proposal to cut the basic rate of taxation by two pence, to 27 pence in the pound. Lawson today reaffirmed that the government aimed to further cut the standard rate to "no more than 25p." He said that that objective "should not take too long to achieve." Turning to policies proposed by political opposition parties, Lawson said those advocated by the Labour Party would entail extra public expenditure of some 34 billion stg. That, he said, "would require either a doubling of the basic rates of income tax or more than trebling the standard rate of (valued added tax) VAT," which is currently 15 pct. On value added tax, Lawson noted that the Conservative government promised back in 1984 not to extend VAT to food. "Beyond that, the incidence of taxation has to be determined in the light of the budgetary needs at the time, and no responsible government could conceivably take any other position," he said. Labour MPs have accused the Conservatives of planning VAT increases for some essential consumer goods. Lawson reiterated his belief that reductions in taxation can often produce higher, not lower, revenues "thus leading to the scope for still further reductions in taxation." Lawson said "inheritance tax is expected this year to yield almost 50 pct more in real terms than Capital Transfer Tax did in 1978-79. The yield of Capital Gains Tax is forecast to be 80 pct higher in real terms, and Stamp Duty up by 140 pct." He said that "the greatly increased yield of Corporation Tax, reflecting greatly increased company profitability, is clearly connected with the reform of Corporation Taxation I introduced in 1984, which brought the rate of tax on company profits in this country to the lowest in the industrialised world." REUTER 
IRAN'S NAVY CHIEF THREATENS GULF CLOSURE

Iran's navy commander warned that Iran would close off the Strait of Hormuz, entrance to the Gulf, if there was any disruption to its shipping or sea-bound trade, Tehran radio said. Commodore Mohammed Hoseyn Malekzadegan told a news conference Iran was ready to maintain security in the Gulf. But he added "If there is any disruption in the movement of our ships and our imports and exports, this waterway would not be left open for any country." The radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, quoted Malekzadegan as saying Iran's navy now had the most advanced defensive equipment, including long-range shore- to-sea missiles and a range of sea-to-sea missiles. He said it had also expanded operations to cover the whole region "from the most northerly point in the Persian Gulf to the most southerly part of the Sea of Oman." Referring to U.S. fleet movements in and near the Gulf, Malekzadegan said they had so far not been directed against Iran's interests. "Their movements have been on the basis of international regulations and in the open seas," the radio quoted him as saying. "However, if any movement or action is carried out against the interests of the Islamic Republic of Iran in whatever context, we shall decisively confront that move." Reuter 
EC URGED TO ACT QUICKLY ON EUROPEAN AIRFARE CUTS

The European Commission should make urgent and concrete proposals to break the deadlock over moves to cut sky-high European airfares, an independent report said. The report by the Institute of Economic Affairs (IEA) said costs, fares and profits on international services within Europe are the highest in the world although European airlines are less efficient and not perceptibly safer than their cheaper U.S. Equivalents. "The European airlines protect their position through the secrecy they maintain over the costs and profits of any group of services," the report said. The airlines also protect themselves through "the ferocity with which (they) resist any relaxation of the monopolistic practices which protect their profits," the report said. Britain, a strong advocate of deregulation, has been trying to push measures to introduce greater competition among Europe's airlines but negotiations foundered at the end of 1986 over discount and deep discount fares. The IEA report said European governments and the Commission, the EC executive authority, had been extraordinarily lax about the airlines' secretiveness, showing "a lack of concern for the interests of the traveller." REUTER 
TORIES MAINTAIN LEAD 10 DAYS BEFORE U.K. ELECTION

A public opinion poll showed Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives maintaining their lead over the opposition Labour party as Britain's June 11 general election campaign entered its third week. The poll, conducted for TV-AM breakfast television by the Harris organisation, put the Tories on 43 pct, Labour on 35 and the centrist Social Democrat-Liberal Alliance on 20 pct. If translated into parliamentary seats in a general election, Thatcher would enjoy an overall majority of 50. Since the general elections were announced on May 11, Thatcher's Tories have maintained the lead. A survey of marginal seats for The Times of London, carried out by the MORI organisation, showed that Thatcher would sweep back in with an overall majority of l40 seats, the same margin she enjoyed in the 1983 general elections. The Times poll of marginal seats where Labour is challenging a Conservative incumbent -- and which it must win in order to dislodge the Tories -- showed the Conservatives with 42 pct, Labour with 34 and the Alliance on 23. If the result were repeated on polling day, Labour would win only a handful of the marginal seats, giving Thatcher a landslide. REUTER 
GOODMAN FIELDER UNIT ISSUES 75 MLN STG CONVERTIBLE

Goodman Fielder U.K. Plc is issuing a 75 mln stg convertible eurobond due July 4, 1997 with an indicated coupon of five to 5-1/4 pct and par pricing, lead manager Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Goodman Fielder Ltd and final terms will be set on, or before, June 5. The issue is callable at 106 pct declining by one pct per annum to par thereafter but is not callable until 1992 unless the share price exceeds 130 pct of the conversion price. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pay 1/2 pct. The issue has an investor put option in 1992 which will be priced to give a yield of approximately 8-3/4 pct. The expected conversion premium is 20 to 24 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 stg and will be listed in London. The payment date is June 24 and there will be a long first coupon period. The conversion period is from July 4, 1987 until June 26, 1997. Over the weekend, Goodman Fielder announced in Sydney that it had signed for a 100 mln U.S. Dollar composite revolving euronote issuance facility to be launched in Hong Kong. REUTER 
GAS CARRIER ESCAPED GULF ATTACK LAST WEEK - LLOYDS

The Panamanian liquified gas carrier Nyhammer, 48,772 dwt, was attacked by an Iranian gunboat on May 24, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence said. One rocket was fired but missed. The vessel subsequently arrived at its destination of Ras Tanura on May 25 and left this morning. REUTER 
U.K. MONEY MARKET GIVEN 25 MLN STG LATE ASSISTANCE

The Bank of England said it provided the money market with late assistance of around 25 mln stg. This takes the Bank's total help today to some 137 mln stg and compares with its latest forecast of a 150 mln stg shortage. REUTER 
MERCEDES-BENZ CREDIT ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Mercedes-Benz Credit Corp is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due June 25, 1992 paying 8-1/4 pct and priced at 100-1/2 pct, lead manager Deutsche Bank Capital Markets said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. The payment date is June 25. REUTER 
U.K. BANKERS CONSIDER NEW ECGD FINANCING PLAN

Representatives of major U.K. Based banks are meeting here today to consider a new plan for reducing the cost of financing British exports guaranteed by the Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD), senior banking sources said. The plan is being developed in conjunction with the ECGD and the Bank of England. Neither the ECGD nor the Bank of England would comment on the plan. However, bankers said one of the main points under discussion is a plan to refinance the bulk of the ECGD's medium term credit portfolio in the international capital markets. The proposals involve introducing a set of interest margins on ECGD backed debt of 5/16 to 7/8 pct, depending on the size and maturity of the credit and the currency. The banks are likely to push for a higher margin. Bankers said that while these rates would reduce a bank's return they would still be more than those proposed about a year ago when the government attempted unsuccessfully to initiate another cost reduction plan. At the same time, the banks would be expected to allow the ECGD to realise additional savings by refinancing existing government backed credit in the capital markets. On credits that are refinanced an original lender would receive a residual margin of 7/16 pct for loans up to 10 mln stg and 3/16 pct on larger transactions. REUTER 



U.K. BANKERS CONSIDER NEW ECGD FINANCING PLAN

Representatives of major U.K. Based banks are meeting here today to consider a new plan for reducing the cost of financing British exports guaranteed by the Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD), senior banking sources said. The plan is being developed in conjunction with the ECGD and the Bank of England. Neither the ECGD nor the Bank of England would comment on the plan. However, bankers said one of the main points under discussion is a plan to refinance the bulk of the ECGD's medium term credit portfolio in the international capital markets. The proposals involve introducing a set of interest margins on ECGD backed debt of 5/16 to 7/8 pct, depending on the size and maturity of the credit and the currency. The banks are likely to push for a higher margin. Bankers said that while these rates would reduce a bank's return they would still be more than those proposed about a year ago when the government attempted unsuccessfully to initiate another cost reduction plan. At the same time, the banks would be expected to allow the ECGD to realise additional savings by refinancing existing government backed credit in the capital markets. On credits that are refinanced an original lender would receive a residual margin of 7/16 pct for loans up to 10 mln stg and 3/16 pct on larger transactions. REUTER 
GLOBAL EQUITY OFFERINGS RISING AT RECORD RATES

Cross border stock market investment is rising at unprecedented rates, seeking a high return and diversification, Charles Lillis, associate director of <Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd>, a subsidiary of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER.N>, said. He told an international equities seminar here that global equity offerings amounted to 3.7 billion dlrs in the first quarter, compared with 11.4 billion dlrs in all of last year and 4.1 billion dlrs in 1985. He said most new issues would come from countries with underdeveloped potential, such as France and Italy. Reuter 
STG COMMERCIAL PAPER EXCEEDS ONE BILLION IN APRIL

Total sterling commercial paper outstanding rose 251 mln stg to 1.19 billion in April, taking it above one billion stg for the first time since the market opened in May 1986, figures released today by the Bank of England show. Banks' holdings of commercial paper totalled 264 mln stg at end-April, down six mln from March. Of the total, 225 mln had been issued by U.K. Companies, up three mln from March. Changes in these holdings are included in the "bank lending in sterling to the U.K. Non-bank private sector" component of M3 money supply. Reuter 
FLOODS AND HEAVY RAIN HIT IRAN

Fifty people were killed or injured in flooding in southeastern Iran and three died after heavy rain elsewhere, Tehran Radio reported today. The radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp, said flooding around Zahedan, near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border, caused heavy damage. Rain in central Iran damaged houses, bridges, crops and irrigation systems. Reuter 
FORD TO INVEST 23 MLN STG IN U.K. ENGINE PLANT

Ford Motor Co <F> is to invest 23 mln stg in high technology equipment at its Bridgend engine plant in South Wales, the Press Association said. The move includes a new computerised engine test facility which the company says will make the factory one of the most efficient of its kind in the world. Bridgend currently supplies Escort, Orion and some Fiesta engines to Ford plants in Britain, West Germany and Spain. Reuter 
COCOA ORIGINS DISMAYED BY BUFFER STOCK ACTION

Traders recently returned from West Africa say some producers there are dismayed by the ineffective action so far by the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock manager on buffer stock purchases. One trader said some West African producers are annoyed the Buffer Stock manager is not playing his part as required by the International Cocoa Pact to stabilise prices from current lows. So far, only 21,000 tonnes of second hand cocoa have been taken up for buffer stock purposes and this, traders noted, only on an intermittent basis. They noted the purchases, of 8,000 tonnes in the first week he bought and 13,000 in the second, are well short of the limitations of no more than 5,000 tonnes in one day and 20,000 in one week which the cocoa agreement places on him. The traders recently returned from West Africa say producers there are unhappy about the impact on cocoa prices so far, noting producing countries are part of the international cocoa pact and deserve the same treatment as consumers. London traders say terminal market prices would have to gain around 300 stg a tonne to take the ICCO 10-day average indicator to its 1,935 sdr per tonne midway point (or reference price). However, little progress has been made in that direction, and the 10-day average is still well below the 1,600 sdr lower intervention level at 1,562.87 from 1,569.46 previously. The buffer stock manager may announce today he will be making purchases tomorrow, although under the rules of the agreement such action is not automatic, traders said. Complaints about the inaction of the buffer stock manager are not confined to West African producers, they observed. A Reuter report from Rotterdam quoted industry sources there saying Dutch cocoa processors also are unhappy with the intermittent buffer stock buying activities. In London, traders expressed surprise that no more than 21,000 tonnes cocoa has been bought so far against total potential purchases under the new agreement of 150,000 tonnes. Carryover holdings from the previous International Cocoa Agreement in the stock total 100,000 tonnes. Terminal prices today rose by up to 10 stg a tonne from Friday's close, basis July at its high of 1,271. It seems that when the buffer stock manager is absent from the market, prices go up, while when he declares his intention to buy, quite often the reverse applies, traders said. Reuter 
UK CONSERVATIVES LEAD LABOUR BY SEVEN POINTS, POLL

British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's Conservatives lead the opposition Labour party by seven percentage points in the June 11 election campaign, according to a public opinion poll today. The Harris poll on the TV-AM breakfast television show gave Thatcher's Conservative Party 42 pct, Labour 35 pct and the centrist Alliance 21 pct. This was a one point drop for the Conservatives and one point rise for the Alliance since the same organisation's survey yesterday. However, a Marplan poll in the Today newspaper had the Conservatives 11 points ahead. It gave them 44 pct, Labour 33 pct and the Alliance 21 pct. All poll results since the campaign began have shown the Conservatives in the lead. An aggregate of recent surveys showed they held a nine to 10 point lead over Labour, enough for a comfortable election victory. REUTER 
DAIWA HOUSE EQUITY WARRANT INCREASED, FIXED

The five year equity warrant eurobond for Daiwa House Industry Co Ltd <DHOU.T> has been increased to 400 mln dlrs from the initial 300 mln dlrs, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The coupon has been set at 1-1/4 pct compared with the indicated level of 1-5/8 pct. Bond market sources noted that this equals the lowest ever coupon seen in this sector. The exercise price was set at 2,604 yen per share, representing a premium of 2.52 pct over today's closing price of 2,540 yen. The foreign exchange rate was set at 146.20 yen to the dollar. REUTER 
NABISCO EXPECTED TO ISSUE DOLLAR STRAIGHT

Nabisco Brands Inc, or one of its units, is expected to issue shortly a dollar straight eurobond, probably totalling 100 mln dlrs, bond market sources said. They said they expect the issue will have a seven year maturity, but to have an investor put option after four years at par. The coupon is expected to be 8-3/4 pct while pricing will be at 101-3/8 pct. REUTER 
FINAL TERMS SET ON EAGLE INDUSTRY WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 17 mln dlr, five year, equity warrant eurobond for Eagle Industry Co Ltd has been set at the indicated level of 1-7/8 pct, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The exercise price was set at 729 yen a share, representing a premium of 2.53 pct over today's closing price of 711 yen. The foreign exchange rate was set at 146.20 yen to the dollar. REUTER 
RJR NABISCO INC ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

RJR Nabisco Inc is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due June 30, 1994 paying 8-3/4 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager of Bank of America International Ltd said. This confirms an earlier report by bond market sources. The issue has an investor put option after four years at par but is non-callable. The selling concession is 1-1/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and listing will be in Luxembourg. The payment date is June 30. REUTER 
BP CUTS NORTH SEA PROPANE PRICE, BUTANE UNCHANGED

British Petroleum LP Gas International said it cut its North Sea LPG (Liquified Petroleum Gas) posted price for propane to 95 dlrs from 110 dlrs a tonne, effective June 1. The move follows a similar cut to 92 from 108 dlrs a tonne announced by Shell U.K. Ltd Friday, also fob North Sea terminals and effective June 1 until further notice. Both companies left their butane prices unchanged at 123 dlrs a tonne. A BP statement said its cut came "as a result of a price review occasioned by substantial changes in the LPG market." BP last lowered its posted propane price from 175 dlrs a tonne on March 1, and Shell U.K.'s last change was from 113 dlrs May 1. REUTER 
CNP OF PORTUGAL MANDATES 250 MLN DLR LOAN

Companhia Nacional de Petroquimica EP (CNP), the Portugese state-owned oil refinery and petrochemicals company, has awarded a mandate to Bank of America International Ltd and Manufacturers Hanover Ltd to arrange a 250 mln dlr loan, banking sources said. The loan will be for eight years and proceeds will be used to refinance existing debt. Interest will be at 12.5 basis points above the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) for the first four years, with the margin rising to 15 basis points in the last four years. No other fees were immediately available. Bankers noted that CNP has faced significant financial problems over the past year as a result of investments in areas which proved to be unprofitable. Portugal is attempting to maintain its position in the petrochemical industry and is undertaking a restructuring of CNP, which involves the divestment of certain unprofitable assets. Partly because of these problems, the new loan carries a "letter of support and assumption" under which the Republic would assume the obligations of CNP should it be unable to meet any payments or cease to exist. Furthermore, bankers noted that this financing covers all of CNP's existing debt, some of which was state-guaranteed but some of which was not. The existing loans had maturities of about seven to 10 years and carried interest margins of between 3/8 and 5/8 pct. By consolidating the loans and covering them with the Republic's support, the borrower was able to obtain a reduction in the margins on the new loan, bankers said. REUTER 
U.K. RESERVES RISE UNDERLYING 4.8 BILLION DLRS IN MAY, (2.9 BILLION APRIL) - OFFICIAL



U.K. RESERVES SHOW RECORD UNDERLYING RISE IN MAY

Britain's gold and currency reserves rose a record underlying 4.76 billion dlrs in May, following April's 2.9 billion dlrs increase, the Treasury said. The underlying trend indicates the level of recent Bank of England intervention on currency markets to curb sterling's strength. It was above market expectations which had been for a rise of between one billion and three billion dlrs. The Treasury declined comment on the figures. Actual reserves rose 4.87 billion dlrs in May, compared with April's 2.8 billion increase, to a total value of 34.68 billion dlrs, compared with 29.81 billion at the end of April. Borrowings under the exchange cover scheme were 238 mln dlrs, against April's 66 mln. Repayments under the scheme were 85 mln dlrs, after 90 mln previously, with capital repayments of eight mln, after three mln last month. Repayments of government debt amounted to 33 mln dlrs. The underlying reserves increase is net of borrowings and repayments. It was larger than the previous record 3.04 billion dlrs rise seen in October 1977. The May increase represents the seventh monthly rise, with reserves up 9.947 billion dlrs in that period, and up 9.816 billion since the start of 1987. REUTER 
U.K. BUILDING SOCIETIES JOIN BANK CLEARING SYSTEM

The two largest U.K. Building societies, the Halifax and Abbey National, said they have joined the banks' centralised clearing system. The move is intended to cut the current four or five days' delay in clearing credits and attract the direct payment of customers' salaries into building societies rather than into banks, spokesmen for the two societies said. It is the first time non-banking organisations have entered the clearing system and emphasises the growing competition between building societies and banks, industry sources said. The two societies yesterday joined the Bankers' Automated Clearing Services (BACS) which settles small, automated payments and the Association of Payment Clearing Systems (APACS) which sets policy for Britain's payment systems. The Halifax had previously settled small payments through Barclays bank and Abbey National through Lloyds bank, the spokesmen said. REUTER 
MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL ISSUES EQUITY WARRANT BOND

Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd <MCIT.T> is issuing a 200 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due June 30, 1992 with an indicated coupon of 1-1/2 pct and par pricing, lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. Final terms for the issue will be set on June 10. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct, while management and underwriting each pay 3/8 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is June 30 and the warrants are exercisable from July 15, 1987 until June 16, 1992. REUTER 
NEW PRIMARY MARKET RULES TO TAKE EFFECT JUNE 15

The International Primary Market Association's new rules for lead managers of fixed rate dollar bonds will take effect on June 15, an IPMA official said. The new IPMA rules require a lead manager to quote firm prices at which it will buy and sell newly issued bonds for 12 months after the launch. The rules were first proposed March 27. Christopher Sibson, secretary general of IPMA, said the rules are not expected to have a noticeable impact on the market because they only apply to dollar denominated bonds, which have been scarce recently. This year, euroyen issuance has outstripped dollar bonds. Sibson said that the rules are intended to provide greater liquidity in the new issues market where underwriters sometimes step away from deals they have managed if the market moves away from them. However, he noted that the IPMA rules are voluntary and the organization has no authority to enforce them. Sibson said that similar rules for new issues denominated in other currencies will be put into effect later, following consultation with the Association of International Bond Dealers, another trade organization. REUTER 
NABISCO EXPECTED TO ISSUE DOLLAR STRAIGHT

Nabisco Brands Inc, or one of its units, is expected to issue shortly a dollar straight eurobond, probably totalling 100 mln dlrs, bond market sources said. They said they expect the issue will have a seven year maturity, but to have an investor put option after four years at par. The coupon is expected to be 8-3/4 pct while pricing will be at 101-3/8 pct. REUTER 
RJR NABISCO INC ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

RJR Nabisco Inc is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due June 30, 1994 paying 8-3/4 pct and priced at 101-3/8 pct, lead manager of Bank of America International Ltd said. This confirms an earlier report by bond market sources. The issue has an investor put option after four years at par but is non-callable. The selling concession is 1-1/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 dlrs and listing will be in Luxembourg. The payment date is June 30. REUTER 
U.K. RESERVES LIFT HOPES OF FURTHER BASE RATE CUT

The record 4.9 billion dlrs rise in U.K. Reserves in May to a total 34.7 billion has lifted hopes for a further cut in bank base lending rates after the June 11 general election, market analysts said. Sterling would have risen on the much better than expected number but for market nerves about the poll outcome, they said. But the weight of foreign currency and gold reserves now available to the authorities to support the pound should curb any market tendency to panic if U.K. Opinion polls show the ruling Conservative Party's lead slipping, they added. "We have been intervening to a very much greater extent than we have done hitherto," Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said at a news conference today, commenting on the news of the record reserves rise. He put the U.K. Intervention in the context of the Louvre accord between leading industrial nations to stabilise the dollar, partly through direct intervention on foreign exchanges. "We have been playing a very full part ourselves," he said. But market analysts see the recent upward pressure on sterling, and consequent need for official sales to damp down its rise, more in the light of local factors. Steven Bell, chief economist at Morgan Grenfell Securities, said that corporate money has been flowing back into Britain amid hopes of another Conservative government, after fears last autumn of a Labour election victory sent it flooding out. U.K. Portfolio investment is also returning, while foreign buyers see U.K. Growth propects and high bond yields as attractive. They will be strong buyers of U.K. Assets, notably equities, once the election is out of the way, Bell said. Analysts see this pressure as the main hope for lower interest rates, as the government is expected to try to reverse the loss of export competitiveness caused by a strong pound. Today, however, the pound hardly moved on the reserves news, dipping on its trade-weighted index against a basket of currencies from 73.1 pct of its 1975 value at 1000 GMT to 73.0 pct at 1100 GMT, half an hour after the figures were released. "The market doesn't want to do anything because of the election," commented an economist at a big U.S. Investment bank. Several dealers and analysts added that market forecasts of a rise in reserves of between one and three billion dlrs had overestimated the amount of pound sales that were likely to have been disguised by swap arrangements or transactions on the forward market. The market also seemed to have overestimated the amount of sterling the Bank of England bought at the end of May to smooth the pound's sudden downturn, while some of the intervention reported in May probably occurred in April, they said. The key three months interbank money market rates eased about 1/8 point, reflecting cautious hopes that the downtrend in U.K. Interest rates will be revived following the reserves news, analysts said. Government bond prices initially firmed, but the market was muted as traders worried about the funding implications of another huge rise in reserves, they added. Morgan Grenfell's Bell forecast a half point base rate cut from the current nine pct level soon after the election, so long as poll projections of another Conservative victory prove accurate, with another half point later. Justin Silverton, equity economist at Credit Suisse Buckmaster and Moore, said a full point reduction might be possible. "Sterling will be held down by interest rate cuts in future, rather than this active intervention," he predicted. Kevin Boakes of Greenwell Montagu Gilt-Edged cautioned against over-optimistic forecasts, but agreed a half point cut looked likely. A cut before the election has been virtually ruled out. "The Bank (of England) is both worried about the political problem of cutting rates during an election campaign ... And has signalled some worry about broad money (growth)," said Robin Marshall, chief U.K. Economist at Chase Manhattan Securities. He said the 10 billion dlrs increase in total reserves in the past seven months may foreshadow full U.K. Entry into the European Monetary System. But Bell said the authorities would like to see another 10 or 15 billion dlrs in the reserves before joining, if they did so. But, unlike many analysts, he doubted the U.K. Will go in. REUTER 
UNILEVER CAPITAL CORP ISSUES NZ DLR EUROBOND

Unilever Capital Corp NV is issuing a 65 mln New Zealand dlr eurobond due July 7, 1989 with an 18-1/4 pct coupon and priced at 101-1/4, bookrunner Hambros Bank Ltd said. Joint lead managers are EBC Amro Bank Ltd and Hambros. The bonds, guaranteed by Unilever Plc, will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 5,000 dlrs and listed in Luxembourg. Fees comprise 1/2 pct for management and underwriting combined and 7/8 pct for selling. REUTER 
FINAL TERMS SET ON TOKYO ROPE EQUITY WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 50 mln dlr, five year, equity warrant eurobond for Tokyo Rope Manufacturing Co Ltd has been set at two pct compared with an indicated level of 2-1/8 pct, lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said. The exercise price was set at 508 yen per share, representing a premium of 2.63 pct over today's closing price of 495 yen. The foreign exchange rate was set at 146.20 yen to the dollar. REUTER 
BRIXTON ESTATE LAUNCHES UNLIMITED STG CP PROGRAM

Brixton Estate Plc is establishing a sterling commercial paper program for an unlimited amount, J. Henry Schroder Wagg and Co Ltd said as arranger. Dealers will be Schroder Wagg, S.G. Warburg and Co Ltd and County Natwest Capital Markets Ltd. The paper will be issued in denominations of 500,000 and one mln stg and will have maturities between seven and 364 days. REUTER 
ICCO BUYS 5,000 TONNES COCOA FOR BUFFER STOCK

The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) buffer stock manager bought 5,000 tonnes of cocoa today for the buffer stock, traders said. The cocoa is believed to have been entirely made up of second hand material, they added. Such a purchase would bring cumulative buffer stock purchases to 26,000 tonnes. Reuter 
CANON SALES ISSUES 100 MLN DLR WARRANT BOND

Canon Sales Co Inc is issuing a 100 mln dlr equity warrant bond due June 30, 1992 with an indicated coupon of 1-5/8 pct and par pricing, lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Fuji Bank Ltd and final terms will be set on June 9. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The deal is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The warrants are exercisable from July 15, until June 23, 1992. The payment date is June 30. REUTER 
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ISSUES 50 MLN STG EUROBOND

The Asian Development Bank is issuing a 50 mln stg eurobond due July 1, 1997 paying 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-7/8 pct, lead manager County Natwest Capital Markets Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 stg and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-3/8 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 5/8 pct. Payment date is July 1. REUTER 
LAWSON CALLS INTERVENTION PROOF OF STABILITY GOAL

The scale of foreign exchange intervention the Bank of England has carried out recently is clear proof of Britain's determination to stabilise exchange rates as agreed between the Group of Seven industrialised countries in Paris in February, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said. Saying he was "content" with sterling's current value, Lawson told reporters he wanted "to maintain the exchange rate stability we have all signed up for." He declined to say if he favoured a rise or a fall from present sterling levels. May currency reserves, out today, showed a record 4.8 billion stg rise, pointing to massive currency intervention. In April, reserves rose a hefty 2.9 billion stg. Pointing to the reserves data, Lawson said, "We have been playing a very full part ourselves" in meeting our commitments toward exchange rate stability as agreed in Paris. "We wish to see it (stability) continuing," he added. Asked which techniques were available to preserve stability, Lawson said both central bank intervention and interest rate changes could be used to tackle "the market pressures there are from time to time." "Interest rate stability is not an objective in that sense...Rates have to be moved up and down at times," he added. Lawson said he expected intervention to be "sterilised" by draining excess sterling liquidity from the market through new issues of government securities and foreign currency sales, when the market allowed. This would limit the inflationary impact of intervention, he said. "Sterilisation will be dictated by market tactics...Not necessarily in the month in which intervention occurs," Lawson said. "I am confident that we can sterilise on this scale." REUTER 
BBC DECLINES COMMENT ON U.K. POLL RUMOURS

The British Broadcasting Corporation declined comment on rumours circulating in the London Stock Exchange that it would release an opinion poll tonight showing the Conservative and Labour parties running level in marginal seats. The general election is set for June 11. The rumour was cited by several market dealers as a factor contributing to this afternoon's slide in share prices. The FTSE 100 share index in late afternoon was down 7.4 points at 2,220.7, having earlier touched a new record of 2,248.8. Nationally, most polls put the Conservatives nine to 10 points ahead, enough for a comfortable election victory REUTER 
LAWSON SAYS VOLCKER OUSTANDING FED CHAIRMAN

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said Paul Volcker has been an outstanding Chairman of the Federal Reserve and he will be greatly missed, a spokesman for the U.K. Treasury said. The spokesman was relaying Lawson's reaction to news that Volcker will not be seeking a third term as chairman. Lawson is campaigning in London ahead of the June 11 general election. Lawson also said he thought Alan Greenspan an excellent choice as Volcker's successor and that he sees no reason to expect a change in policy. Reuter 
TIGHT FAR EAST FREIGHT SPACE HITS SUGAR MARKET

The Far Eastern sugar market is being hit by a tightening in available nearby freight space needed to move raw sugar to various destinations, notably from Thailand, traders said. This has resulted in a hardening of freight rates in those areas. These are now being quoted between 12.5 and 17.5 dlrs a tonne per day, depending on shipment and destination, against recent fixings below 12 dlrs a tonne. Charterers are considering combining contracted shipments because of inadequate space, shipping sources said, noting 13 raws cargoes are awaiting shipment from various ports. A cargo of Thai raw sugar was reported traded at basis July New York futures less 25 points for June/July 15 shipment, traders said. But others said this was old business. Reuter 
ICCO BUFFER TO BUY 3,000 TONNES COCOA JUNE 3

The buffer stock manager of the International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) will tender for about 3,000 tonnes of cocoa beans Wednesday, June 3, the ICCO said in a statement. It said all other conditions remain unchanged from the previous announcement. These conditions are that offers from registered companies should be in pounds sterling for cocoa beans for which standard differentials have been set in the ICCO's buffer stock rules, and can be for cocoa afloat through to December shipment and spot to December arrival/delivery. The basis position will be afloat, May/July shipment or June arrival/delivery. For later positions the appropriate carrying costs will be taken into account. The deadline for the receipt of offers by the manager shall be 1330 hrs london time (1230 gmt) in the case of offers emanating from the secondhand market and 1400 hours in the case of offers emanating from the origins. The competitiveness of offers will be assessed by taking into account the standard differentials, the cost of taking cocoa into store (currently 23.00 pounds sterling from "cif landed" and 38.00 pounds sterling from "cif shipping weights" to "in store") and the cost of carry which currently is 12.00 pounds sterling per month, the ICCO said. No more than four offers will be considered from each offering party, it added. Reuter 
NO PROSPECT IN SIGHT OF EC BUDGET ACCORD

The European Community was set to plunge into an ever-deepening budget crisis after ministers failed to reach agreement on plugging a gap in the near-bankrupt Community's finances, diplomats said. As EC budget ministers ended six hours of talks in Luxembourg, diplomats said there was little basis for an accord amongst the trading bloc's 12 member states. The EC executive Commission says the Community faces a deficit this year of at least five billion European Currency Units and could be forced to choose between massive spending cuts or bankruptcy. It has appealed to member states to pay an extra 1.5 billion ECUs to help meet the deficit, caused by soaring farm spending and falling revenues. But hardliners Britain and West Germany have insisted that there can be no extra cash for the Community this year and instead call for a clampdown on farm spending, which absorbs two thirds of the EC budget. "We have to make clear that expenses should be based on income," West German Minister of State Hans Tietmeyer told reporters. "There is no way the Germans will agree to extra financing in the form of national contributions," he added. A second Commission proposal, which would plug most of the budget gap by paying member states in arrears rather than in advance for their spending on Community farm policies, was also far from agreement, diplomats added. The proposal, strongly backed by Britain and West Germany, would save up to four billion ECUs if payments were delayed for two months. But poorer member states, which would have to borrow funds to cover the delay, complain the change in the system would unfairly impose too much of the burden on them. The European Parliament is also expected to refuse an early debate on the changeover in the farm payments system, further delaying any moves to solve the deficit problem, parliamentary sources said. Reuter 
STRONG DEMAND FOR PERU BISMUTH IN JAN/MAY

Very strong demand from all markets including, recently, Japan has resulted in Peru's bismuth exports showing an impressive increase in January/May 1987, Peru's state owned mining industry's marketing arm Minpeco S.A. Said. In a statement released by its London office, Minpeco said Peruvian customs figures for bismuth exports for the first five months were 574.8 tonnes compared with 160.7 tonnes in the same period of 1986 and 483.4 tonnes during the whole of 1986, Minpeco said. A breakdown of the figures showed Peru exported 296.4 tonnes of bismuth to the U.S. During Jan/May 1987 compared with 127.0 during the whole of 1986. Other recipients were Peoples Republic of China 110.4 (100.0), Holland 100.2 (150.0), USSR 50.0 (50.0) and other areas 17.8 tonnes (56.4). Sales to the U.K., West Germany, France and other Western and Eastern European countries are hidden under the heading Holland as Minpeco sells to customers in these countries from stocks the company normally holds in Rotterdam, the statement said. REUTER 
CAOBISCO CONDEMNS EC OILS AND FATS TAX PROPOSAL

The proposed European Community (EC) levy on oils and fats has been criticised by CAOBISCO, the association of EC biscuit, chocolate and confectionery manufacturers. In a letter to the President of the Council of Ministers, M. Eyskens, the association said the tax would cost the EC biscuit, cake, chocolate and confectionery industries almost 200 mln European currency units per year. The tax also was contrary to the spirit of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and could prompt U.S. Retaliatory measures on EC exports, CAOBISCO said. In a parallel move the British Biscuit, Cake, Chocolate and Confectionery Alliance has written to U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson urging him to oppose the levy. President Charles Gillett said the tax was extending the Commission's powers by allowing it to set levels of consumer taxation, an area previously reserved for national treasuries. Reuter 
ISO DEFERS DEBATE ON BUDGET CONTRIBUTIONS

An International Sugar Organization (ISO) committee discussed the terms of a new administrative International Sugar Agreement but did not debate the most controversial area of budget contributions, delegates said. Progress was made in a number of technical areas, but with one of the main importers, the Soviet Union, unable to attend because of prior commitments, the distribution of votes and contributions was not raised, an ISO spokesman said. Delegates said private meetings are also taking place between the main participants to discuss the details of the new agreement. The committee is due to meet again tomorrow. Reuter 
PASCO CORP ISSUES 85 MLN DLR EQUITY WARRANT BOND

Pasco Corp is issuing an 85 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due July 9, 1992 with an indicated coupon of 1-5/8 pct and par pricing, lead manager Nomura International Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Mitsubishi Bank Ltd and final terms will be set on June 23. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pay 3/4 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date is July 9 and the warrants are exercisable from July 20, 1987 until June 16, 1992. REUTER 
AEGON NV ISSUES 100 MLN DLR EUROBOND

Aegon NV is issuing a 100 mln dlr eurobond due July 23, 1990 paying 8-1/4 pct and priced at 101 pct, lead manager Goldman Sachs International Corp said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and is expected to be listed in Amsterdam. The selling concession is one pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/8 pct. The payment date is July 23. REUTER 
BERISFORD SIX PCT PROFIT RISE MAINTAINS MOMENTUM

S and W Berisford Plc <BRFD.L> said a six pct rise in pretax profits to 42.7 mln stg in the first half had maintained last year's momentum despite poor commodities trading conditions and continued rationalisation costs. Its British Sugar Corp Plc unit produced its best ever performance due to greater efficiency and better selling prices and was on course for record full year profits. In the last year Berisford attempted to sell the unit and attracted several bids. A bid by Hillsdown Holdings Plc <HLDN.L> was abandoned, one from Tate and Lyle Plc <TATL.L> officially blocked and a sale of BSC to <Gruppo Ferruzzi> also prevented. It had authorised a further 46 mln stg in capital expenditure in BSC for next year, eight mln higher than the anticipated total this year. Berisford said it was particularly pleased with the progress of its associate Hunter Saphir Plc, in which it acquired a substantial equity stake in January in return for the sale of some of its food manufacturing companies. Since the deal was completed, the market value of the stake in Hunter had almost doubled and at the same time enabled the group to concentrate efforts in its food division on ingredients -- mainly sugar, gelatine and flavours. The property division maintained good growth while financial services made a satisfactory contribution to profits. However, the results of the industrial division continued to be disappointing although the rationalisation programme was progressing well. Commodity operations returned to profit after a second half loss last year. The results reflected dull market conditions, with coffee trading failing to repeat last year's exceptional first half performance due to extremely difficult conditions in world markets. It said it was reducing its exposure to the volatility of commodity earnings by concentrating on a smaller range of key commodities. Berisford shares firmed one penny on the announcement to 366p. REUTER 
BET SAYS RESULTS SHOW STRATEGY IS WORKING

BET Plc <BETL.L> said slightly higher than expected results for the year to March showed that its strategy was working. BET raised pretax profits in the year to 157.4 mln stg from 124.6 mln previously. It had continued to build on a range of complementary services through a combination of organic growth and carefully targetted acquisitions. A company statement said it was confident that the figures would provide an effective springboard for the broadening of its shareholder base, particularly through the issue of American Depositary Receipts in the U.S. Later this year. BET also said it was appointing Sir Timothy Bevan, formerly chairman of Barclays Plc to replace Sir Hugh Dundas when he retires as Chairman in December. BET's net debt fell four pct in the year to 262 mln stg with gearing down to 63 pct from 65 pct. Returns on assets, sales and capital employed showed further improvement in the period. BET shares at 0907 GMT were quoted at 291p, one penny firmer on last night's close. REUTER 
TEHRAN WITHDRAWS MORE DIPLOMATS FROM BRITAIN

Tehran Radio said all but one Iranian diplomat in London would return home within two weeks. The report, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp, followed an announcement by the Foreign Office in London that Britain had withdrawn four of its six remaining diplomats in Tehran. They were the latest moves in a diplomatic row between the two countries that started with the arrest of an Iranian consular official in England followed by the abduction of a British envoy in Tehran, who was later freed. REUTER 
UK MAY ADJUSTED UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS RECORD 64,300 TO 2.95
MLN OR 10.6 PCT - OFFICIAL



UK AVERAGE EARNINGS ROSE 6.5 PCT IN YEAR TO APRIL,
UNDERLYING RISE 7.75 PCT - OFFICIAL



U.K. MANUFACTURING WAGE COSTS RISE 1.0 PCT IN YEAR TO
APRIL (MARCH 0.7 PCT RISE) - OFFICIAL



U.K. APRIL INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 0.3 PCT, MANUFACTURING
UP 0.55 PCT - OFFICIAL



U.K. UNEMPLOYMENT FALLS BELOW THREE MLN IN MAY

U.K. Unemployment fell a record provisional, seasonally-adjusted 64,300 in May to a total 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, the Employment Department said. In April, seasonally-adjusted unemployment fell by an upwardly revised 21,600 to 3.02 mln or 10.9 pct, it said. The unadjusted jobless total in May, including school leavers, alos fell a record 121,000 to 2.99 mln or 10.8 pct from April's 3.11 mln, 11.2 pct. May was the eleventh successive decline from a peak last summer of 11.6 pct, the Employment Department said. "Unemployment has fallen to under three mln for the first time in over three years. The May fall of 64,000 was the largest drop since records were first kept (in 1948)," Employment Minister Norman Fowler said. All regions have seen above average falls in long term unemployment during the past year, he added. The last time the adjusted total of unemployed was below three mln was July 1984, while the unadjusted total was last below this level in June 1983. REUTER 
U.K. EARNINGS UP UNDERLYING 7.75 PCT IN APRIL

U.K. Average earnings rose a seasonally adjusted 6.5 pct in the year to end-April, after increasing by 6.7 pct annually in March, the Employment Department said. The April index, base 1980, was set at a provisional, seasonally-adjusted 197.3, up from 194.8 in March. But the underlying rise was 7.75 pct, up 0.25 pct from March and back to the same level seen late last year. The underlying rise is adjusted for factors such as back-pay and timing variations. Unit wage costs in U.K. Manufacturing industry rose one pct in the year to April, after an upward revised rise of 0.7 pct in the period to March, the Department of Employment added. In the three months to end-April, such costs were 0.9 pct higher, year-on-year, compared with a rise of 1.2 pct in the three months to March. Manufacturing productivity in April was 6.1 pct higher than a year ago after a downward revised 6.8 pct increase in March. In the last three months period manufacturing productivity was up 6.7 pct, having increased 6.5 pct in the first quarter. REUTER 
U.K. CLEARING BANK LENDING RISES SHARPLY IN MAY

Clearing bank sterling lending to the private sector in May is estimated to have risen by an underlying, seasonally adjusted 3.5 billion stg compared with 1.3 billion stg in April and a recent monthly average of 1.4 billion, the Banking Information Service said. The unadjusted rise was 2.77 billion stg, up from 844 mln in April. The May surge in borrowing from the clearing banks was prompted by the fall in base rates, which reached nine pct on May 11, the Banking Information Service said. Borrowing through bill finance and other sources shrank. The increase in lending in May was seen in most categories, the Banking Information Service said. In the personal sector, on an unadjusted basis, mortgage lending rose 544 mln stg compared with 471 mln in April. General consumption went up 399 mln against 355 mln, though credit card debt rose only 55 mln compared with 161 mln. Financial sector borrowing was up 734 mln stg in May compared with a net repayment of 60 mln the previous month. Unadjusted private sector deposits increased by 2.37 billion stg against 1.16 billion. Sterling attracted an extra 955 mln stg in deposits from abroad after little change in April. REUTER 
BRITAIN PULLS OUT MORE DIPLOMATS FROM IRAN

Britain withdrew four more diplomats from its diplomatic mission in Tehran, leaving only two officials in their posts. The Foreign Office said the four had left Tehran earlier today and would arrive in London tomorrow. Britain and Iran have been embroiled in a three-week-old diplomatic row which began when a British diplomat was beaten and abducted for 24 hours in the Iranian capital.- Reuter 
FOUR SUGAR CARGOES SOLD TO CHINA YESTERDAY -TRADE

Four cargoes of raw sugar were sold to China yesterday via the London trade to supplement the country's current nearby buying programme, traders said. The sugar was reported sold at around 160 dlrs a tonne c and f for July/August shipment or arrival in September, they said. Some traders said recent Chinese purchases could total as much as 300,000 tonnes, but others, while agreeing a heavy volume had been taken, said an amount less than that figure was involved. China was still believed to be in the market for more sugar, traders said. REUTER 
VESSEL LOST IN PACIFIC WAS CARRYING LEAD

The 37,635 deadweight tonnes bulk carrier Cumberlande, which sank in the South Pacific last Friday, was carrying a cargo which included lead as well as magnesium ore, a Lloyds Shipping Intelligence spokesman said. He was unable to confirm the tonnages involved. Trade reports circulating the London Metal Exchange said the vessel, en route to New Orleans from Newcastle, New South Wales, had been carrying 10,000 tonnes of lead concentrates. Traders said this pushed lead prices higher in early morning trading as the market is currently sensitive to any fundamental news due to its finely balanced supply/demand position and low stocks. Trade sources said that 10,000 tonnes of lead concentrates could convert to around 5,000 tonnes of metal, although this depended on the quality of the concentrates. A loss of this size could cause a gap in the supply pipeline, particularly in North America, they noted. Supplies there have been very tight this year and there is a strike at one major producer, Cominco, and labour talks currently being held at another, Noranda subsidiary Brunswick Mining and Smelting Ltd. REUTER 
BRITISH TELECOM LOOKS FORWARD TO MORE PROGRESS

British Telecommunications Plc <BTY.L> said it looked to further progress this year after reporting a 11.7 pct rise in 1986/87 pretax profits to 2.07 billion stg. The result was at the top end of market expectations but the shares nonetheless declined from last night's closing levels to stand 12p lower at 303p at 1130 GMT. Telephone call income rose 9.5 pct to 4.97 billion while rental income increased 10.6 pct to 3.06 billion. The company said it had not paid anything through its profit-sharing scheme, after 18 mln stg last year, considering such payments inappropriate after a series of strikes. It said total operating costs rose 806 mln stg to 7.08 billion while its basket of across-the-range tariffs had been reduced overall by 0.3 pct last November under arrangements set up before privatisation. Despite the rise in profits, taxation rose only 11 mln stg to 754 mln, reflecting the cut in U.K. Corporation tax to 35 pct from 40 pct during the year. Gearing fell to 33 pct from 39 pct. Price regulation formulae were introduced for both the previously state-owned utilities that have been floated off. Yesterday, British Gas Plc <BRGS.L> said it was cutting tariffs for domestic customers by about 4.5 pct. BT chairman Sir George Jefferson said work on new digital exchanges and optical fibre links will continue and the fight against vandalism of public call boxes would go on. "We have been spending 160 mln stg over three years modernising and expanding our payphone service to make our call boxes more reliable and harder to vandalise." Expenditure on digital exchanges was about 500 mln stg and progress had been made in installing optical fibre. REUTER 
NAT WEST CUTS MORTGAGE RATE FOR NEW BORROWERS

National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L> announced a 0.75 pct reduction in the mortgage interest rate applicable to new mortgages taken out from June 19, 1987. The new rate is 10.5 pct (APR - Annual Percentage Rate - 11.2 pct including fees for normal repayment mortgages, and 11.1 pct including fees for endowment and pension mortgages). A spokesman for Nat West said the position for existing mortgages is being kept under active review in the light of market conditions, and an announcement will be made as soon as possible. REUTER 
RPT - OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX INTACT - MINISTER

A minority group of European Community countries strong enough to block the adoption of a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats is still intact after the EC Commission proposed changes to its proposals earlier today, British agriculture minister John MacGregor told journalists. He said Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark continue to oppose the tax after the Commission proposed making it temporary and promising compensation to any third countries whose exports suffered. Reuter 
OPEC DIFFERENTIALS NOT SEEN POSING MAJOR PROBLEMS

Some OPEC states are unhappy about the prices assigned to their crude oil but this should not pose great problems when the group reviews its six-month-old price and output pact in Vienna next week, oil analysts say. They said Nigeria, which holds the OPEC conference presidency, and Qatar probably have the biggest grievances about price differentials making some of their crudes uncompetitive. There has also been speculation by Japanese traders that OPEC might want to mark up prices of high-sulphur heavy crudes, to correspond with greater demand and higher fuel oil prices. But most experts agree that a major overhaul of price differentials is unlikely, so as to avoid giving the market signals of a dent in OPEC's new unity. "All OPEC members can make a good case for changing differentials," said one analyst with a major oil company. "But at the end of the day, the attitude is going to be "leave well alone' and little or nothing is likely to be altered." Iran, Libya and Saudi Arabia are among those who also saw sales problems earlier this year, traders say. But diminished customer resistance to fixed prices and, in some cases, marketing incentives have helped their sales. Some producers can sell uncompetitively priced crudes by means of discounts, processing deals or selling them alongside better priced grades in a "package." Many OPEC crudes are seen to be reasonably priced, at least for some part of the year. But many experts say OPEC should change prices quarterly or monthly to match seasonal demand for fuel oil-rich heavy crudes and gasoline-rich lighter grades. At its last meeting in December, OPEC agreed to reintroduce fixed prices from February 1 around an 18 dlr per barrel reference point. Official prices had been effectively dropped in 1985 when members offered discounts to attract customers. OPEC also decided to limit first-half 1987 output to 15.8 mln bpd and proposed ceilings of 16.6 mln for the third quarter and 18.3 mln for the fourth. Analysts expect it will now extend or raise slightly the current ceiling for the coming months. Spot market and netback values for some crudes do not mirror official prices, but OPEC will probably keep the 18 dlr target and at most make minimal changes to differentials, analysts say. The 18 dlr figure is based on a basket of six OPEC and one non-OPEC crudes. OPEC assigned prices to its other key export crudes, with a 2.65 dlr gap between the heaviest and lightest. Extra heavy crudes were among those left out. Industry estimates vary on the proportion of OPEC oil exports actually sold at official prices. Several experts say only one-quarter to one-third of the total in fact sells at official prices, with some of the rest included in processing or barter deals or sold in the form of refined products. Problems with the new structure appeared earlier this year, when some producers' output fell due to customer reluctance to pay the new prices. Nigeria especially found its gasoline-rich Bonny Light crude -- now OPEC's highest priced grade at 18.92 dlrs a barrel -- was uncompetitive on the spot market against Britain's Brent. In February and March, Nigeria's production shrank below its 1.238 mln bpd OPEC quota. Spot prices have since revived, due partly to seasonal demand for gasoline, and its output has risen. Some experts feel Bonny Light is still overvalued and say its price should be cut by between 50 cts to one dlr a barrel. But Mehdi Varzi, chief oil analyst with London's Kleinwort Grieveson Securities, doubts Nigeria will actively push the differentials question in Vienna. "It would not look good for OPEC unity if Nigeria, which holds the presidency, raised the issue," he said. REUTER 
U.K. DATA DEPRESS RATE CUT OUTLOOK - ANALYSTS

Today's U.K. Economic data have pushed the chances of another base lending rate cut from the current nine pct further into the distance, analysts said. A record fall in unemployment and good manufacturing production data showed that the economy is still strong and does not need a fillip from lower rates. News that underlying earnings are rising 7.75 pct annually, taken together with higher than expected bank lending and money supply growth, revived inflation worries and monetarist arguments against easier credit, they said. "The timetable on lower interest rates is being pushed back all the while. The strength of the economy and broad money growth are making it more difficult to see one in the near term," said Chase Manhattan Securities economist Robin Marshall. Analysts have reached this conclusion despite yesterday's mortgage rate cuts for new borrowers, which building societies said were a sign of the expected near term trend for U.K. Rates. It also counters the optimistic forecasts of last week that a post-general election cut was imminent, supported by such optimistic economic news as May's record reserves rise which mirrored the Bank of England efforts to cap sterling's strength. The gilt market lost nearly half a point as enthusiasm about May's 64,300 fall in the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate, to 2.95 mln or 10.6 pct of the workforce, was rapidly replaced by dismay at the continued high level of underlying average earnings in April, dealers said. The upset was compounded by news that sterling bank lending rose 2.7 billion stg in May, above forecast, and that the Bank of England looks likely to have to sell more gilts to offset the impact on domestic money supply of its current intervention. "The gilt market reaction was correct," said Bill Martin, chief U.K. Economist at brokers Phillips and Drew. "That's very important ... It shows the economy in a very good state indeed," Skeoch said. "There's no reason to get worries about inflationary pressures because they're very subdued." Unit wage cost rises were better than expected, just one pct higher in the year to April, and it was these costs rather than average earnings which were potentially inflationary, he added. "I don't think these average earnings numbers are a major problem," agreed Chase Manhattan's Marshall. But he said the gilts market was likely to remain worried about the funding implications of recent intervention. He said the inflow of foreign money into sterling assets earlier this year, attracted by growth prospects and hopes that the ruling Conservatives would win last week's election, now looks likely to prevent a base rate cut as the authorities try to prevent these funds swelling the domestic money system. However, David Owen, U.K. Economist at Kleinwort Grieveson Securities, said any fresh sterling strength would still trigger a base rate cut and that today's figures did not signal higher inflation this year. "Wage increases are being offset by productivity growth. As long as that continues we're okay," he added. REUTER 
COUPON FIXED AS INDICATED ON WACOAL WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 80 mln ECU, five year equity warrant eurobond for Japan's Wacoal Corp has been fixed at the indicated 1-1/2 pct, bookrunner Banque Paribas Capital Markets said. The exercise price was set at 1,323 yen per share, representing a premium of 2.56 pct over today's closing price of 1,290 yen. The foreign exchange rate was set at 167.11 yen to the ECU. REUTER 
WORLD BANK ISSUES 100 MLN ECU EUROBOND

The World Bank is issuing a 100 mln ECU eurobond due July 21, 1994 paying 7-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/2 pct, lead manager Morgan Guaranty Ltd said. The non-callable bond is available in denominations of 1,000 and 50,000 ECUs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The selling concession is 1-1/4 pct while, management and underwriting combined pays 1/2 pct. The payment date is July 21. REUTER 
FECSA TO MEET DEBT NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE TUESDAY

Officials of Fuerzas Electricas de Cataluna S.A. (FECSA), the Spanish electricity company, will hold the first meeting with members of a new debt negotiating committee representing its creditors in Barcelona on Tuesday, senior bankers said. The talks will cover a possible rescheduling of the company's 610.57 billion peseta debt, which includes both foreign and domestic loans and other debt instruments. The committee was formed earlier this month after FECSA agreed to rescind self-imposed terms for its debt repayments, which were unacceptable to the banks. The negotiating committee is a subcommittee of a broader creditor steering committee made up of some 22 creditor banks and leasing companies, which is co-chaired by Bank of America International Ltd and The Sanwa Bank Ltd. Bank of America and Sanwa also will co-chair the negotiating committee. The other members are Bankers Trust Co, Caixa de Barcelona, Confederacion Espanola de Cajas de Ahorros, Chase Manhattan Bank, Deutsche Bank, Long Term Credit Bank of Japan, Orient Leasing Ltd, Crown Leasing Ltd and Japan Overseas Leasing Co. These banks also are on the broader steering committee. Bankers said that in addition to the negotiating committee, there also will be a seven-member sub-committee for documentation and finance of which Citicorp will be chairman. Gulf Bank KSC will chair a separate committee within the committee for the documentation. The final list of the creditors participating in the various committees was formulated this morning, and the steering committee is now notifying FECSA's approximately some 320 creditors of the results. REUTER 
U.K. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE RISES IN 1ST QTR 1987

Capital expenditure in the U.K. Manufacturing, construction, distribution and financial sectors rose slightly in the first quarter to 4.75 billion stg from 4.74 billion in the fourth 1986 quarter, but remained below the 4.86 billion stg spent in first quarter 1986, the Department of Trade and Industry said. Manufacturing saw its share of spending rise to 1.64 billion stg in the first quarter from 1.57 billion in the final 1986 quarter, but that was under the 1.78 billion stg registered in first quarter 1986. Expenditure levels are seasonally adjusted and measured at 1980 prices, the Department said. REUTER 
U.K. COURT RULES AGAINST RTZ ON OIL FIELD COSTS

The U.K. High Court dismissed an appeal by Rio Tinto-Zinc Corp Plc's <RTZL.L> RTZ Oil and Gas Ltd unit and ruled that the financial provisions a company makes for the future cost of abandoning an oil field are not tax deductible, the Press Association reported. The company was appealing against a decision of the Tax Commissioners that any such provision was a capital expenditure, not a revenue expenditure, and was not deductible. The court was told that since 1976 the company had made an annual provision of around 750,000 stg for the eventual cost of abandoning a rig. An RTZ spokesman said the ruling was not worrying as the subsidiary had assumed that the provisions were not deductible from corporation tax payable. It would have been a bonus if the company had won but all budgeting had been on the assumption that it would not, he said. Oil analysts said that RTZ's assumption of liability was shared by the industry as a whole. The ruling appeared to mean that tax relief on the expensive process of abandoning rigs would apply when the expense occurred, not when provisions for future expenses were built into the accounts, one analyst added. Reuter 
S. AFRICAN UNION OBJECTS TO PLANNED MATTHEY MOVE

A South African trade union is in dispute with a subsidiary of Britain's Johnson Matthey Plc over the company's proposal to move a platinum refinery near Johannesburg to a black tribal homeland. The 30,000-member mainly black Chemical Workers Industrial Union said it fears the planned move to the Bophuthatswana homeland, where South African unions are not recognised, could lead to job losses and affect wages. A mass dismissal last year at the Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd <IPLA.J> mines in the tribal homeland sent world platinum prices rocketing. The union said talks with management over the proposed move had broken down. It said an earlier ballot of refinery workers showed that most favoured striking over the move but added that no final decision had been taken on strike action. The refinery processes all platinum metals of Rustenburg Platinum Holdings Ltd, the world's largest platinum producer. It is owned by Matthey Rustenburg Ltd, a joint-subsidiary of Johnson Matthey and Rustenburg which, in turn, is owned by mining group Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Co Ltd. Reuter 
EC INCREASES SPECIAL FEED WHEAT TENDERS - TRADE

The European Community (EC) has increased the size of two special export tenders for British and West German feed wheat held in intervention stores and included South Korea as an acceptable destination, traders said. The tender was originally for 120,000 tonnes of British and 120,000 tonnes of West German feed wheat for shipment only to Poland. But now both tranches have been increased by 50,000 tonnes to 170,000 tonnes with South Korea added as a possible destination. Both tenders are open from June 24. Reuter 
ITC CONTESTS USE OF DOCUMENTS AS COURT EVIDENCE

The International Tin Council, ITC, intervened in a High Court hearing in an attempt to prevent the presentation of internal Council documents as evidence. The intervention in Shearson Lehman's action against the London Metal Exchange over its "ring out" of tin contracts in 1986 is likely to have implications for other cases in which the Council is involved following the collapse of its buffer stock operations in October 1985, ITC delegates said. The ITC's case is being presented by Professor Rosalyn Higgins and is expected to take a further one or two days next week. Court does not sit tomorrow. In essence the Council is claiming that its status is similar to that of a foreign embassy and that its archives can therefore not be used in an English court of law. The Council ended its quarterly session today ahead of schedule. The meeting had been expected to go on until tomorrow when the European Community's legal advisers were due to attend, but delegates reviewed the progress of the various legal actions today. Otherwise, the meeting was occupied with internal administrative matters, delegates said. The ITC will continue to operate with a reduced staff after June 30 following the two year extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement. As well as dealing with the ongoing litigation, the Council will continue with its statistical work and carry out some research studies, although staffing in the research department is being cut to one from two previously. At this week's session the Council elected Philip Sparkes of Australia as first vice-chairman for the producing members and Heinz Hofer of Switzerland as second vice-chairman for the consumers for the year from July 1. Future quarterly sessions are scheduled for October 5/7 and December 14/16. Reuter 
MEXICO SIGNS 120 MLN DLR RESTRUCTURING WITH U.K.

Mexico signed a rescheduling accord covering 120 mln dlrs in official debts to Britain, as part of a 1.8 billion dlr restructuring agreed with the Paris club of creditors last year, the finance ministry said. The rescheduling is over 10 years with five years grace, and carries an interest margin of 1/2 pct over libor. Finance minister Gustavo Petricioli, who signed the accord for Mexico, said the agreement reflects a strengthening of economic, financial and trade relations between the two countries. The Paris Club restructuring forms part of a 12 billion dlr financial package agreed with Mexico's creditors last year. The rescheduling covers public sector trade debts coming due between september 1986 and march 1988. Reuter 
UBS TO SELL 25,000 SANDOZ SHARES

Union Bank of Switzerland (Securities) Ltd said it is lead managing the sale of 25,000 new bearer shares of Sandoz Ltd. The shares closed in Zurich yesterday at 12,100 Swiss francs each. Final terms will be set on, or before, June 25. The selling concession is two pct while management and underwriting each pays 3/4 pct. REUTER 
CIBA-GEIGY BUYS MINORITY STAKE IN UK CROP FIRM

Ciba-Geigy AG <CIGZ.Z> said it acquired a minority stake in British cereal breeding company <New Farm Crops Ltd>. It said in a statement the British company's skills in applied plant breeding would assist Ciba-Geigy in applying the results of its biotechnology research and enable it to extend its activities in seeds to crops such as wheat and barley. New Farm Crops of Horncastle, Lincolnshire, will have access to Ciba-Geigy's agricultural research resources, especially in biotechnology. REUTER 
U.K. BUILDING SOCIETY RECEIPTS FALL IN MAY

Net receipts of U.K. Building societies in May fell to 521 mln stg from 727 mln in April and compared with 500 mln in May 1986, figures from the Building Societies Association show. Association director-general Mark Boleat said in a statement he was satisfied with the May figure in view of the calls for investors funds' generated by the privatisation of Rolls-Royce Plc and the approaching second call on the partly-paid British Gas Plc shares. Boleat said the recently announced cut in mortgage rates suggests a continuation of buoyant demand. He noted that building society net receipts usually decline seasonally as summer approaches. The British Gas second call fell on June 9, affecting building society inflows in both May and June. Gross retail receipts in May, unadjusted for withdrawals, were 7.46 billion stg against 6.63 mln in April and 5.60 billion in May last year. The net inflow of funds from the wholesale market in May was 317 mln stg against 188 mln in April and 249 mln in May 1986. REUTER 
ITALY'S CIR SEEKS 200 MLN DLR LOAN FACILITY

Compagnie Industriali Riunite (CIR) has asked Citicorp Investment Bank Ltd to arrange a 200 mln dlr syndicated loan facility, which will have a final maturity of seven years, Citicorp said. Continental Illinois Ltd and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd will be coordinators for the facility, which will be in the name of CIR International S.A., Luxembourg and guaranteeed by Compagnie Industriali Riunite SpA. Banks will be able to terminate their participation at the end of year five or year six, subject to four years prior notice. There is an availability period of 12 months during which a commitment fee of 0.0625 pct per annum is payable on undrawn amounts. Interest on the drawn loan will be 0.15 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate. The borrower is the holding company for Carlo di Benedetti's various companies, which include Ing C. Olivetti EC SpA. REUTER 
INDIA BUYS PALM OLEIN AT TENDER - TRADERS

The Indian State Trading Corp (STC) are reported to have taken three parcels, around 5,000 tonnes each, of palm olein at yesterday's weekly vegetable oil tender, traders said. All are for August shipment at 364 dlrs a tonne cif. India passed on all other materials, they added. REUTER 
LAWSON SAYS LOW U.K. UNIT WAGE COSTS HELP EXPORTS

Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said current low unit wage costs are helping British exports but wage rises are "faster than is comfortable." He hoped yesterday's Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) forecasts of increases in wage rises were wrong, saying OECD predictions "are somewhat unreliable." "Productivity is rising very fast, and therefore even though wages are going up faster than is comfortable, the actual unit cost of labour...Is not going up fast at all," Lawson said in answer to questions on BBC radio. "That is one of the reasons why we're doing so well in export markets, for example, but we could do even better and get unemployment down even faster if there was a more moderate rate of growth in wage increases," Lawson added. His remarks followed yesterday's news that underlying average earnings were rising 7.75 pct annually in April, up from March's 7.5 pct increase, which sent the U.K. Government bond market lower and helped trigger inflation worries. Lawson said he would not update his own economic forecasts for the U.K. Until the traditional Autumn Statement on the economy. Lawson would not be drawn on whether he will cut the basic rate of tax from the current 27 pct to 25 pct in the next budget due in March 1988. "We will certainly achieve it sooner or later," he said. The latest official data, released yesterday, showed unit wage costs in manufacturing industry were rising 0.9 pct annually in the three month period ended April, down from a 1.2 pct rise in the first quarter and sharply below last year's first quarter growth rate of 7.8 pct. However, analysts said this figure is likely to deteriorate somewhat as productivity growth slows later this year. REUTER 
NIPPON OIL AND FATS ISSUES EQUITY WARRANT EUROBOND

Nippon Oil and Fats Co Ltd is issuing a 70 mln dlr equity warrant eurobond due July 15, 1992 with an indicated coupon of 1-3/8 pct and par pricing, lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd said. The issue is guaranteed by Fuji Bank Ltd and final terms will be fixed on June 25. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting combined pays 3/4 pct. The issue is available in denominations of 5,000 dlrs and will be listed in Luxembourg. The payment date is July 15 and the warrants are exercisable from July 29, 1987 until June 30, 1992. REUTER 
NIGERIA MAY SIGN DEBT RESCHEDULING IN SEPTEMBER

A target date of mid-September has been set for the signing of a package rescheduling Nigeria's medium term public sector debt and outstanding letter of credit claims, Nigeria and Barclays Bank Plc said in a joint statement. The statement was issued during the last of a two day meeting here between the two sides. Barclays is a co-chairman of the commercial bank steering committee. The statement said, "Further progress has been made in the 1986/87 rescheduling of medium term public sector debt and outstanding letter of credit claims." REUTER 
U.K. CENTRAL BANK WARNS OF EXCESSIVE RATE CUTS

Bank of England governor Robin Leigh-Pemberton said lowering interest rates too fast could jeopardise recent economic achievements in the U.K. In remarks prepared for delivery to businessmen in Birmingham, he said prospective returns on real investment are more favourable, relative to those on financial assets, than for a good number of years. "It would surely be foolish to put that favourable conjuncture at risk by lowering interest rates prematurely or excessively," he said. "We might enjoy a short-term boost to activity, but at the risk of a damaging return to the uncertainty and acrimony of high inflation," he added. Leigh-Pemberton said he recognised there are some who would argue that interest rates are still too high and deter investment in industry. "But we should not forget that less than a year ago we were intervening to support sterling and had some temporary difficulty in persuading the markets that a one pct increase in base rates, to 11 pct, was a sufficient tightening of policy at the time," he added. Base rate is currently nine pct. REUTER 
FAILURE OF EC FARM PRICE TALKS DISRUPTS TENDERS

There will be no serious bids at European Community open market tenders for wheat and barley until EC farm ministers agree to the 1987/88 farm price package, trade sources said. The failure of farm ministers this week to come to an agreement resulted in no bids at this week's tender for export subsidies and traders said bids are unlikely as long as the uncertainty remains. One trader said permanent damage to export prospects can be avoided if an agreemend can be reached soon, but the situation will become more serious as time passes. However, traders said there seem to be few buyers around, lessening the disruptive impact of the delay. Poland and South Korea, who are in the market for feed wheat, will be offered intervention grain through special tenders, traders said. Reuter 
U.K. LENDERS OFFER MORE FIXED RATE MORTGAGES

More U.K. Lenders are offering homebuyers fixed interest rate mortgages under which the borrower makes the same monthly payment no matter what happens to other interest rates. And with mortgage rates now at their lowest levels in years, the loans have been snapped up by eager home buyers trying to lock into cheap money. The decision to offer fixed rate loans, industry officials said, reflects the increasingly competitive nature of the home mortgage business. While fixed rate mortgages are uncommon in the U.K., They were the mainstay of the business in the U.S. Up until only a few years ago. But in the early 1980s interest rates soared. U.S. Lenders, mostly savings and loan associations, were earning rates as low as three pct on 30 year fixed rate mortgages they held in their portfolios but had to pay depositors rates as high as 15 pct to induce them to retain their accounts. As a result hundreds of institutions collapsed or were forced to merge. The survivors decided to offer mortgages whose rates would move in line with the cost of funds. "We very much have the example of the U.S. Thrifts in mind," said a spokesman for Abbey National Building Society, explaining why his institution, for the time being, is only offering variable rate mortgages. The rash of advertising to solicit new business has helped homebuyers to become even choosier about loans and lenders concede they are being forced to undercut each other still more. Sharp cuts on variable rate mortgages announced earlier this week by the nation's two largest building societies and by National Westminster Bank Plc reflect growing competition for new business, officials at all three institutions said. The fixed rate mortgages on offer carry interest rates even below those on the variable rate loans. "Of course they are less profitable than other (variable rate) mortgages," said a spokesman for Midland Bank Plc, which earlier this year said it earmarked 500 mln dlrs for fixed rate new mortgage loans. But he said the bank is willing to offer less profitable loans because, "It was just another way to attract people to our mortgage product." Trustee Savings Bank Plc (TSB) was offering five year fixed rate mortgages at 9.9 pct earlier this year. The 100 mln stg that TSB set aside for the loans was exhausted within just a few days, according to a spokeswoman. "Everybody loves an under 10 pct mortgage," she said, noting that within five days the bank loaned the equivalent of 25 pct of its 1986 volume. In short, the appeal of fixed rate mortgages is that they offer an opportunity to gamble on the direction of interest rates. If interest rates fall after the mortgage is made the lender is earning an above average return on assets. But if interest rates rise it is the homebuyer who has won the benefit of cheap money. Household Mortgage Co had planned to offer a 25 year fixed rate mortgage after the June 11 elections on the assumption that a Conservative Party victory would help money market rates fall further, according to Duncan Young, managing director. Young explained that the company had planned to protect itself against the chance of rising interest rates by buying a complicated hedging instrument. But money market rates have risen contrary to expectations and the company has shelved its plans for the time being. He said money market rates were too high to arrange both the mortgages and hedge profitably. However, he said that when the Household Mortgage Co does make fixed rate mortgages it is likely to securitise them. This means bundling different mortgages together to resemble a bond and selling them to an investor. For technical reasons securitisation is simpler and more efficient with fixed rate rather than with floating rate mortgages. In the U.S., Where fixed rate mortgages are popular again, securitisation has provided the bulk of mortgage money over the past few years. REUTER 
LLOYDS PULLS OUT OF EUROBOND/GILT MARKET MAKING

Lloyds Bank Plc said it is withdrawing from market making in Eurobonds and U.K. Government bonds (gilts). It said in a statement it will maintain an active presence in short-term securities trading, swaps and other treasury products, building on its strengths in traditional foreign exchange and money markets. In the statement, Lloyds chief executive Brian Pitman said "We have a relatively small position in these two overcrowded markets and we have decided to reallocate the resources to opportunities which promise a better return on our shareholders' investment." With this decision, Lloyds becomes the second major U.K. Clearing bank to feel the effects of the deregulation of the London Stock Exchange, or "Big Bang," last October. Earlier this year, Midland Bank Plc pulled out of equity market making because it did not believe the return justified the costs involved in maintaining and developing a market share. Lloyds Treasurer Alan Moore subsequently told Reuters that the decision was taken at a board meeting earlier today and had been under discussion for some time. He said the move was not a reaction to any losses sustained in the trading of Eurobonds or gilts but rather a result of a "strategic review" of the future of Lloyds involvement in these markets. In the end, Lloyds decided these markets did not represent "an attractive return to our shareholders," he said. He noted that Lloyds had not expected its U.K. Government bond operations would be profitable in the early stages, although he declined to discuss the finances of the operation. "This is an overcrowed market," Moore said of the U.K. Government bond market, which began Big Bang with 27 market makers. Lloyds withdrawal now leaves the number at 26. Market participants noted that Lloyds was the only one of the clearing banks which did not buy a jobber (middle man) or broker before Big Bang. Under the old system, the gilt market operated under a separate system which involved separate functions for jobbers and brokers. Now these tasks have been taken up by market makers acting as both. Moore said that one reason Lloyds decided to withdraw from these markets was that they could no longer justify the commitment of capital that was required to maintain these operations. He said Lloyds would make every effort to redeploy employees in these areas within the bank. REUTER 
COLD, WET WEATHER SLOWS BEET GROWTH IN W. EUROPE

Cold and wet weather in northern, western and central parts of Europe continued to slow beet growth but plant density is reported to be good in most countries, sugar statistician F.O. Licht said. Temperatures were too low for the season and the rain has hampered field work and occasionally led to water-logged fields. But in eastern and southeastern Europe, warmer weather has boosted sugar beet growth. Weather in the Soviet Union also allowed good beet development, Licht said. In Sweden beet growth has been delayed, although plant population is reported to be regular and good. Cool and rainy weather slowed beet growth in Denmark and crop prospects are rated as slightly below normal. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, it was rather cool with heavy rainfall in places which has delayed beet growth. In France, Belgium, the Netherlands, and West Germany, it was mostly cool with frequent and often heavy rainfall which continued to slow down beet growth and often made field work impossible. In Austria, it was warm with some rainfall, which was favourable for beet growth, Licht said. In Czechoslovakia and Poland, it was mostly warm, favouring beet development. but some heavy rain may have caused damage. In the European beet growing regions of the Soviet Union, it was warm with showers over most areas and weather was generally good for the emergence and growth of beets. In south eastern Europe, warm weather with some rainfall boosted beet development. Labour trouble threatens the beet crop in Spain. Disputes between the factories and the trade unions are threatening to delay the start of processing in the southern areas, where beets are maturing very early this year. Reuter 
LLOYD'S OF LONDON DECLARES PCW OFFER UNCONDITIONAL

Lloyd's of London, the insurance market, said its offer for a settlement of the five-year old <PCW Underwriting Agencies> affair, which involved losses totaling about 235 mln stg, was unconditional. For the offers to become unconditional, there had to be 90 pct acceptance by those Lloyd's members affected by the PCW fraud, although this level could be reduced by a caretaker agency set up in 1985 to manage the affair. The offers involve one-off cash payments by PCW names - investors who guarantee insurance risks - in exchange for a Lloyd's guarantee ending their exposure to PCW-related claims. Reuter 
CIVIL SERVICE STRIKE DELAYS U.K. TRADE FIGURES

Civil service industrial action started early this month will delay the publication of May's U.K. Overseas trade figures, which had been due out next Thursday, a Trade and Industry Department statement said. A department spokesman said the figures will probably be put back by about a month. The June trade figures, due in late July, will also be delayed, he added. REUTER 
PLATINUM DEMAND ESTIMATED 17 PCT HIGHER BY 1991

Demand for platinum could reach 3.4 mln ounces by 1991, compared with an estimated offtake of 2.88 mln in 1986, Chris Clark, platinum marketing director for Johnson Matthey Plc said. Clark told a meeting of the Minerals Research Organisation in Milton Keynes he foresaw a 250,000 ounce increase in consumption for use in autocatalysts, currently the largest single application for platinum. Jewellery consumption is set to rise by 70,000 ounces, Clark predicted in his speech, the text of which was released in London today. Clark said his forecast allowed for only a modest further increase in investment buying and may well be cautious. He said South Africa was the most likely source of additional supplies and will need to increase output by about 500,000 ounces to meet increased demand. The capital investment required to produce the additional output would be around one billion U.S. Dlrs and the political climate may make it difficult to raise the money, he said. The Soviet Union, whose exports have declined since the 1970s, might increase sales to the West by about 50,000 ounces, Clark said. "The very probability of a growth in demand set against the massive investment required for expansion - and that expansion only being viable in South Africa or Russia - leads me to conclude that the price of platinum will be substantially underpinned in the medium to long-term," Clark said. REUTER 
LLOYDS BANK BOND MARKET WITHDRAWAL CALLED PRUDENT

Lloyds Bank Plc's <LLOY.L> decision to withdraw from making markets in Eurobonds and U.K. Government bonds (gilts) sent shivers down the spines of other market participants but was viewed as prudent by banking analysts. "It (the move) really isn't a surprise. They lost a lot of money in the early stages of the gilt market and now they want to cut their losses while they can," said Keith Brown, banking analyst at Greenwell Montagu. "The question now is how many other gilt market makers will face a similar fate," one senior gilt market maker said. Eurobond market participants were equally stunned. "They are the first firm of that size I can remember to have pulled out of eurobond market making altogether," said a member of the Association of International Bond Dealers London staff. Other Eurobond market participants said that while Lloyds had frequently changed the staff of some of its eurobond operations, it was hard to believe they were in trouble. With this action Lloyds, the third largest U.K. clearing bank, becomes the first U.K. clearing bank to withdraw from the gilt market following the Big Bang deregulation of the London Stock Exchange in October. Earlier this year Midland Bank Plc <MDBL.L>, the fourth largest clearing bank, opted out of making markets in equities on the grounds that the return did not justify the expense. It continues as a market maker in gilts, however. In a prepared statement, Lloyds Bank chief executive Brian Pitman said the bank had a "relatively small position in these two overcrowded markets and we have decided to reallocate the resources to opportunities which promise a better return on our shareholders investment." Lloyds said it would maintain its presence in short-term securities trading, swaps and other treasury products. Alan Moore, Lloyds Treasurer, told Reuters that the decision was forward looking and followed a "strategic review" of the prospects for Lloyds in these markets. "We decided the return just was not attractive," he said. Although the decision was made at a meeting of Lloyds board this morning, Moore said that it had been under consideration for some time. He denied that the move was a "reaction to events in the trading room" although he acknowledged that the bank's gilt operations were not profitable in the early stages of the new market. Greenwell's Brown noted that for all of 1986, Lloyds Merchant Bank sustained a loss of 28 mln stg, most of which he said were accounted for by the Eurobond and gilt operations. For all of 1986, Lloyds reported a pre-tax profit of 700 mln stg. "Lloyds is so big, it can easily absorb these losses," Brown said, noting that they are minuscule when compared with the bank's exposure to Latin America. U.K. Clearing banks have come under pressure to increase their provisions against bad loans to third world countries since Citibank announced plans to add three billion dlrs to its provisions in mid-May. National Westminster Bank Plc <NWBL.L>, the largest of the clearers, became the first of the U.K. Clearers to follow Citicorp's <CCI> move earlier this week when it said it was adding some 466 mln stg to its sovereign debt provisions. Lloyds has the second largest exposure to Latin America after Midland Bank, the smallest of the four clearers. Lloyds has said it is reviewing the situation and Moore denied that today's action had any connection. "It is totally unrelated," he said. Trading in Eurobonds and gilts had ended by the time the announcement was made. But market participants were dumbfounded. "We only heard the news about 20 minutes before the announcement. I had no idea it was coming. I don't know if I still have job," said one trader at Lloyds who declined to be identified. Lloyds' Moore said that the bank would do all it could to redeploy the staff affected by the decision in other parts of the bank. But even though Lloyds' share of these markets was relatively small, other market participants, particularly in gilts, were unnerved. One senior gilt market maker noted that the news comes during a period when both gilt and Eurosterling markets have been battered by the lack of investor participation, following the June 11 U.K. general election. Most firms had held long positions on expectations that a return of the ruling Conservative party would prompt heavy demand. These expectations have failed to be met and both markets have sustained sizeable losses since the election. Lloyds has long been the subject of rumors that it was experiencing problems with its gilt operations and officials have never denied that the early stages were unprofitable. Gilt market sources suggested that one of the problems facing Lloyds on the gilt side was its decision to build up its own team. It was the only clearer which did not purchase a broker or a jobber (middle man) in the run-up to Big Bang. Under the old system, these functions have been conducted separately but now market makers perform both tasks. But even long before Big Bang, market makers had expressed doubts that the gilt market would be large enough to sustain 27 market makers, even if turnover increased substantially. And with Lloyds withdrawal, many market makers believe that some of the remaining 26 may opt to bow out gracefully. Reuter 
WPP GROUP RAISES PROPOSED RIGHTS ISSUE

<WPP Group Plc>, which on Friday secured agreement for its bid for <JWT Group Inc> by increasing its offer, said it would raise its planned rights issue to raise 213 mln stg instead of 177 mln to finance the deal. On Friday the two groups said they had agreed to merge after WPP raised its cash price to 55.5 dlrs a share from 45.0 dlrs, valuing JWT at 566 mln dlrs. Under the new rights proposals, WPP shareholders could apply for new ordinary shares at 875p each on a two-for-one basis. The issue has been underwritten. The remainder of the purchase price would come from a loan facility of up to 260 mln dlrs. The issue and the proposed acquisition of JWT remain conditional on the approval of shareholders. The original proposal for the rights issue was on the basis of five new shares for every three held. The revised version would involve the issue of up to 24.3 mln new shares, representing 65 pct on the enlarged fully diluted share capital. WPP shares were quoted at 0757 GMt unchanged at 10.70 stg. REUTER 
TERMS SET ON NICHIREI FIVE YEAR WARRANT BOND

The coupon on the 100 mln dlr, five year, equity warrant eurobond for Nicherei Corp has been set at the indicated 1-3/8 pct, lead manager Nikko Securities Co (Europe) Ltd said. The exercise price was set at 974 yen per share representing a premium of 2.53 pct over today's closing price in Tokyo. The foreign exchange rate was set at 147.45 yen to the dollar. A 50 mln dlr, seven year, deal for Nichirei will be priced later this morning by lead manager Yamaichi International (Europe) Ltd. REUTER 
LAND SECURITIES ISSUES 75 MLN STG CONVERTIBLE BOND

Land Securities Plc <LAND.L> is issuing a 75 mln stg convertible eurobond due December 31, 2002 with an indicated coupon of 6-3/4 to seven pct and par pricing, lead manager J. Henry Schroder Wagg Ltd said. The issue is callable at 106 pct declining by one pct per annum to par thereafter but is not callable until 1992 unless the share price exceeds the conversion price by 130 pct. The selling concession is 1-1/2 pct while management and underwriting each pays 1/2 pct. Final terms will be set on, or before, July 8, and the expected conversion premium is 13 to 18 pct. The payment date is July 30. The issue is available in denominations of 1,000 stg and will be listed in London. REUTER 
BET TO APPLY FOR LISTINGS IN NEW YORK, TORONTO

BET Plc <BETL.L> said it will apply for listings on the New York and Toronto stock exchanges. BET said it filed its registration statement with the authorities in North America for the share issue cleared by its shareholders at the extraordinary meeting on March 19. The combined offering will involve up to 25.8 mln new BET shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts, with four BET shares per ADR. The shares were valued at 77.3 mln stg at Friday's London closing price of 300p. Reuter 
BRITISH AIRWAYS SEES FIRST QUARTER RECOVERY

British Airways Plc's <BAB.L> May passenger and cargo traffic figures provided evidence of recovery from last year's setbacks and this trend will be reflected in first quarter results due in August, chairman Lord King told the annual meeting. Earlier this month, the newly-privatised airline reported a 29 pct rise in passenger traffic figures for May, with cargo traffic up 22 pct. In the year to March, British Airways reported a drop in pre-tax profits to 162 mln stg from 195 mln previously. However, King said this result was satisfactory, considering the difficulties posed by the Chernobyl disaster and the U.S. Raid on Libya. He said British Airways intended to return its tour travel operations to profitability, when questioned by shareholders. In 1986/87, this division reported an operating loss of nine mln stg, the fifth year of losses. However, he said the group might reconsider its course of action if a turnaround seemed unlikely in the long-term. Reuter 
EXERCISE PRICE SET ON NOKIA EQUITY WARRANT BOND

The exercise price for the warrants attached to the 100 mln dlr eurobond for Finland's Nokia Oy <NOKS.HE> has been fixed, lead manager Morgan Guaranty Ltd said. The five year, par-priced, deal was launched last Thursday and pays five pct. Each 5,000 dlr bond has 134 warrants attached which are each exercisable into one Nokia free preferred share at a price of 169.4 Finnish markka. This compares with today's closing price of 178 markka. REUTER 
WESTERN DONORS STILL BACKING ZAMBIA, SAYS MINISTER

Finance Minister Gibson Chigaga said all of Zambia's traditional financial backers apart from Britain had pledged continued backing for the country's new go-it-alone economic program announced last month. Chigaga told Reuters in an interview it was not true that Western states had threatened to withold financial aid following Zambia's abandonement of a tough IMF-inspired program that included the auctioning of the local kwacha. "It is only Britain which has openly come out to say it would withhold funds intended for the auction system of foreign exchange," Chigaga said. "All the other countries have said their relationship with us cannot be affected by the abandonment of a system that only lived for 18 months, when they have been supporting us for over 20 years now," he said. Chigaga said that Britain was now considering its stand following representation by the Zambian government. Chigaga told Reuters that guidelines on the functioning of the new economic prgram would be released soon. REUTER 
WESTLAND GETS 40 MLN STG FINANCING FACILITY

<Westland Group Plc> said it signed a 40 mln stg, five-year unsecured syndicated bond and guarantee facility. In a prepared statement it said the facility would support future sales, particularly of helicopters, and would be extendable annually on an evergreen basis. The facility also could be used to guarantee down payments and advances by customers and to provide performance bonds. The facility was provided equally by seven international banks from Europe and Japan and by Britain's Export Credits Guarantee Department. REUTER 
JAGUAR PLANS ONE BILLION STG OUTLAY

Jaguar Plc <JAGR.L> will spend about one billion stg over the next six years on expanded production, automation and improved efficiency, Jaguar chairman Sir John Egan said. He told reporters the company planned to raise production to around 80,000 cars a year by 1992 from 47,000 this year, while productivity was expected to rise to 5.5 cars per worker in 1990 compared with four cars now. Egan said the XJ6 model introduced last October was the first of a new saloon car family. Jaguar planned to bring out a new sports car in the early 1990s, probably called the "F." Reuter 
CHEVRON N.SEA FIND MAY HOLD 300 MLN BBLS -ANALYSTS

A North Sea oil find announced by Chevron Corp's <CHV> Chevron Exploration North Sea Ltd may indicate a new field with recoverable crude oil reserves of 300 mln barrels, industry analysts said. Chevron said a sidetrack well on block 16/26 on the U.K. Continental shelf tested 9,000 barrels per day (bpd) of 20 API crude oil from the tertiary "Alba" sand through a three-inch surface choke. "The estimated amount of oil at the Alba field is around 320 mln barrels," Paul Spedding of stockbroker Kleinwort Grieveson and Co told Reuters. He said industry estimates put the total reserves at the field at over one billion barrels, but given the low gravity of oil, the recovery rate would be expected to be around 20-25 pct. Analysts said the results were encouraging, but the potential difficulty of operating and recovering oil in the field was shown by the fact that the first well had to be plugged and a sidetrack drilled. "The field seems to be shallow and widespread, which will require a multi-platform development in recovery, pushing costs up," Christopher Osborne of stockbroker Hoare Govett said. Most analysts said that although the low gravity of the oil found would require additional costs in recovery, the test well showed that it flows well. "Although the gravity of oil at the field seems to be low, it seems to flow quite well and around 300 mln barrels could be recovered," Carol Bell of Phillips and Drew told Reuters. However, Chevron officials declined to comment on the analysts' reserve estimates. They said that without further research and drilling in the area this summer, they would not disclose any reserve figures. Analysts said that if the field were declared commercial and developed, there would be a ready local market for the heavy crude it produced. "Most refineries are now upgraded to refine heavy oils and the price differentials between heavy and light crudes are a lot narrower today," Osborne said. Chevron operates the block on behalf of 16 companies which include British Petroleum Development Ltd, DSM Hydrocarbons (UK) Ltd, Enterprise Oil (TNS) Ltd, Marathon Int. Pet. (GB) Ltd and Phillips Petroleum Co U.K. Ltd. Reuter 
STOCK EXCHAGE SAYS NO QUESTION OF HALTING TRADING

A spokeswoman for the London Stock Exchange said there was no question of trading being suspended because of the unprecedented three-day drop in prices, which has seen almost 23 pct wiped off share values. Trading on the Hong Kong market has been called off until Monday because of the steep slide on Wall Street amid panic selling on all the world's stock exchanges. The Tokyo market was 14.9 pct off last night after a huge 508 point (22.5 pct) fall on Wall Street yesterday. The Stock Exchange said although the Stock Exchange Automated Quotation (SEAQ) system was working perfectly, "fast market" conditions may pevail periodically. A "fast market" indicator is displayed at the bottom of the SEAQ screen when the huge volume of activity is delaying prices from entering the system, making screen prices lag behind the prevailing market. Such conditions are reviewed every 30 minutes and at 1000 GMT were withdrawn and all on screen prices became firm. The Exchange said the mandatory quote period will still end at 1600 GMT but depending upon trading activity the market indices may again be calculated up to 1630 GMT instead of the usual 1600 GMT. At 0945 GMT the FTSE 100 share index was down 259.1 points at 1,793.2, 12.6 pct lower so far today. REUTER 
GROUNDED BRITISH BAUXITE VESSEL REFLOATED IN ORINOCO

The British bulk carrier Envoy, which ran aground in the Orinoco river on October 16, was refloated without lightening on October 19, Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service said. The Envoy, 75,453 tonnes dw, was carrying a cargo of 50,000 tonnes of bauxite from Brazil to Cuba. REUTER 
U.K. SEPTEMBER M3 RISES 0.8 PCT, M0 UP 0.8 PCT - BANK OF ENGLAND.



U.K. SEPTEMBER STERLING BANK LENDING UP 4.4 BILLION STG - OFFICIAL.



U.K. TORY PARTY CHAIRMAN TEBBIT TO JOIN BLUE ARROW

Conservative Party chairman Norman Tebbit, who plans to give up the post an a date yet to be set, is joining Blue Arrow Plc <BAWL.L> as a non-executive director, Blue Arrow said. Blue Arrow, which has just completed the purchase of U.S. Employment agency <Manpower Inc>, said Tebbit is joining the board along with Michael Davies as non-executive directors from November 1. Davies is a director of several publicly-listed companies, including British Airways Plc <BAB.L>, and TI Group Plc <TIGL.L>. REUTER 
GOLDMAN SACHS DENIES RUMOURS OF SOLVENCY PROBLEM

<Goldman Sachs and Co> is not facing severe financial problems and has not filed for protection under U.S. Bankruptcy laws, Robert Conway, managing director of Goldman Sachs International Corp said. He was responding to a Reuter enquiry about rumours in London financial markets that the firm was in financial trouble. "There is absolutely, positively no truth to those rumours," he said noting that in the current financial environment rumours like this are bound to surface. Conway said that Goldman Sachs has had an excellent year and that it has a strong balance sheet and good liquidity. "You can't be in the equity market as we are and not experience some problems after a day like yesterday (when the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 508 points). But we are not facing any severe financial problems," he added. REUTER 
U.K. STOCKBROKERS DENY RUMOURED HEAVY LOSSES

Rumours of heavy trading losses at two large U.K. Brokerage firms, Warburg Securities and Barclays de Zoete Wedd (BZW), are not true, spokesmen for the firms said. Peter Wilmot-Sitwell, joint chairman of Warburg Securities, told Reuters the firm lost about 4.7 mln stg on Monday. This was equal to the profit made last week. He had no estimate for today's outcome. BZW spokesman Geoffrey Kelly described the rumours as "absolute rubbish." He added "We lost a bit, but who didn't?" Warburg Securities is part of <S.G. Warburg Group Plc>. BZW is owned by Barclays Plc <BCS.L>. Rumours of trading losses among London brokers have been circulating since the market collapse gained fresh momentum. Stock Exchange chairman Sir Nicholas Goodison has been unavailable for comment this morning. The London market has fallen almost 24 pct since Thursday. Reuter 
REUTERS LAUNCHES TWO NEW SERVICES IN EUROPE

Reuters Holdings Plc <RTRS.L> said it had launched the Reuter Commodities 2000 and the Reuter Energy 2000 high speed quotation services in Europe. They will carry around 18,000 quotations on commodity, financial and energy futures, together with related options, from more than 30 exchanges. They join Equities 2000, the quotations service for global equities launched in May, to form the new generation of products delivered over Reuters new high speed Integrated Data Network (IDN). REUTER 
EIB ISSUING 100 BILLION LIRE EUROBOND

The European Investment Bank (EIB) is issuing a 100 billion dlr eurobond due November 9, 1993, paying 12 pct and priced at par, Cassa Di Risparmio Delle Provincie Lombarde (CARIPLO) London branch said as lead manager. The issue is available in denominations of two mln and five mln lire and will be listed in Luxembourg. Payment date is November 9. The eurobond is callable after four years at 101-1/2 pct and after five years at 101 pct. The fees include a 1-1/4 pct selling concession, and 5/8 pct for management and underwriting, combined. REUTER 
U.K. CREDIT POLICY SEEN STEADY, DESPITE BANK DATA

An unexpectedly heavy 4.4 billion stg surge in U.K. September sterling bank lending is unlikely to nudge the Bank of England towards tightening monetary policy as long as sterling remains in its present robust state, economists said. An acute crisis of confidence in equity markets over the past two days will in any case subdue personal consumer credit demand which has largely been behind growth in lending. "In the normal course of events the markets would have been extremely worried about that figure," noted Peter Spencer, U.K. Economist with Credit Suisse First Boston. After an initial dip in reaction to the bank lending data, which compared won stg August rise, U.K. Government bonds (gilts) soared as investors continued to flee from plummetting equities into the relative security of government securities. Equity markets dropped sharply on the news, touching a day's low of 1,766.7 on the FTSE 100 index after the data, before staging a recovery. Sterling held its buoyant tone throughout. U.K. Money market rates, in a similarly calm response, resumed the slightly easier trend of earlier in the morning after little more than a token blip as the figures came out. Noting that such a huge rise in credit extended by banks would under other circumstances have prompted market fears of a rise in clearing bank base rates from the current 10 pct, "With the financial markets doing what they're doing, that's the last thing the Bank of England would want to do," Spencer said. "The monetary situation is clearly very bad but as long as sterling is firm, the authorities are unlikely to put rates up," said Kevin Boakes, chief U.K. Economist at Greenwell Montagu Gilt Edged. Boakes pointed to a rise in the narrow money measure M0 to 5.2 pct year-on-year from August's 4.5 pct growth, which he said must cause some concern at the Treasury. But "The fact that overall broad money growth has slowed down is a rather encouraging sign," noted Paul Temperton, U.K. Economist with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. He pointed to a fall in the year-on-year growth rate of the M3 broad money aggregate to 19.5 pct in September from August's 22 pct. It was concern about credit growth which prompted the Bank of England to engineer a one point rise in U.K. Bank base rates to 10 pct in early August, caution endorsed subsequently by news of a massive 4.9 billion stg July rise in bank lending. Temperton noted that a particular focus of bank worry in that period had been the behaviour of U.K. Asset markets. Housing and equities were the key two asset markets in influencing consumer behaviour, he said. In the light of the precipitous falls on U.K. Equity markets in the past few days, "There will almost certainly be a straightforward impact on consumer spending and on retail sales," Temperton said. "Almost certainly we can look forward to slower growth in consumer borrowing if the equity shakeout continues," he added. "I think the stock market has decided that the bank lending figure is a thing of the past...We are talking about a very serious panic and a flight to quality," Spencer said. A U.K. Treasury official said that it was important to look at all the monetary information, not just the bank lending, adding that monetary aggregates were growing much more slowly than bank lending. Senior banking sources noted that the surge in bank lending was evidence of the continuing recent trend of fairly heavy personal sector borrowing. Figures from the Banking Information Service showed personal sector lending by U.K. Clearing banks rose by 1.66 billion stg in September after a 978 mln stg August rise. Much of the rise reflected quarterly interest payments. REUTER 
NORWAY'S SPAREBANKEN ROGALAND GETS EURO-CD PROGRAM

Sparebanken Rogaland, a large Norwegian savings bank, has in place a 200 mln dlr euro-certificate of deposit program, First Interstate Bank of California said as arranger. Dealers for the program are First Interstate, First Chicago Ltd, Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Manufacturers Hanover Ltd. First Chicago will be issuing and paying agent. REUTER 
TIN COUNCIL ALLOWED APPEAL ON USE OF DOCUMENTS

Britain's highest court has decided the International Tin Council (ITC) can appeal over the use of ITC documents in court actions. On November 2 the House of Lords will decide if and to what extent ITC documents, whether circulated or not, are admissible as court evidence. Lawyers working in the legal tangle left from the October 1985 collapse of the tin market said this hearing is likely to last a few days. On Wednesday the Court of Appeal will link the outstanding ITC cases that have so far reached it and a single set of hearings could begin in early January, they added. The House of Lords ruling on the use of ITC documents will be referred back to the action by two Shearson Lehman companies against the London Metal Exchange although the underlying case is not expected to be resumed until mid-1988. The Court of Appeal hearings include action between brokers and cases by brokers and banks against the ITC and the member governments of the tin council. Action taken by brokers seeking both the winding up of the ITC or and placing it into receivership will also be covered by the Court of Appeal legal schedule. Reuter 
ICO EXECUTIVE BOARD TO MEET EARLY NOVEMBER

The International Coffee Organization (ICO) Executive Board is to hold a meeting on November 3/4, its first since export quotas were re-introduced early this month. An ICO spokesman said the session, for the first time under the chairmanship of Bruno Caron of France, will review the market situation and the operation of quotas. On November 5 the six exporters making up the ICO Board of Management of the Promotion Fund will review its program for the 1987/88 year (Oct/Sept) and items left over from 1986/87. On November 2 a six nation working group will consider stock verification in Papua New Guinea. Reuter 
BRITISH AEROSPACE WINS SWISS DEAL

British Aerospace Plc <BAEL.L> has won a 150 mln stg contract to supply Switzerland with military equipment, including 20 Hawk Mk 66 advanced jet trainers. The training and logistic package includes a <Rediffusion Plc> Hawk flight simulator, a BAe spokesman said. The first plane will be made in Britain and delivered to Switzerland by late 1989. The remaining 19 aircraft will be co-produced by BAe and Swiss industry with final assembly in Emmen, the spokesman said. The Hawks will enter service in 1990, replacing the Swiss Air Force's British De Havilland Vampire jets. Reuter 
LAWSON SAYS UK INTEREST RATE PROSPECTS UNCHANGED

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said the collapse of British share prices this week held no implication so far for domestic interest rates. He said in a television interview that "there is nothing in the events of the past few days to increase the upward pressure on (U.K.) interest rates." Sterling has so far stayed solid during the crisis, backed by strong economic fundamentals and by 10 pct bank base lending rates, analysts said. Lawson's comments followed another frantic day in London's financial center, where British shares closed 12.2 pct down on the day. Reuter 
NO NEED TO STATE U.K. SUPPORT FOR SYSTEM-LAWSON

U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson said there is more confidence in British financial institutions than in U.S. Equivalents, so there is no need for an official statement that the Bank of England will provide liquidity to the U.K. Financial system. "Our institutions are in a stronger position, I think, and the state of confidence is very much higher in this country so I see no need for the Bank of England...To make any statement of that kind," he said in an interview on Channel Four television. Earlier a pledge to provide such liquidity from U.S. Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan reassured world markets. Lawson said the Bank of England also saw no reason to provide such reassurance. The Bank of England had earlier declined comment. Analysts said Greenspan's pledge that the Fed would stand behind the U.S. Financial system reassured markets that the current turmoil should not spill over into the rest of the economy through a crisis in a financial institution caught out by heavy equity price losses and bond price volatility. Reuter 
EC FARM MINISTERS BACK SPENDING CURBS IDEA

European Community (EC) agriculture ministers gave their support in principle for a new scheme to limit spending on the bloc's controversial farm policy at a meeting in Luxembourg on Tuesday, Danish minister Laurits Tornaes told journalists. Acceptance of the scheme, by which farmers would suffer price cuts if their production exceeded certain norms, known in EC jargon as stabilisers, is seen by diplomats as vital if the EC is to solve its current massive budget crisis. Speaking at a news conference after chairing a two-day meeting of farm ministers, Tornaes said: "It is no longer a question of whether we are to have stabilisers. It is now a question of how we are to implement them." However, EC sources warned that despite Tornaes' optimism, it may be difficult to get the sort of detailed agreement needed on the stabiliser scheme ahead of an EC heads of government meeting in Copenhagen on December 6. This is the vital meeting at which EC leaders will be asked to agree a new system of EC financing, ending the bloc's hand-to-mouth existence which has resulted in its being unable to agree a budget for 1988. Britain has said it will block moves to give the EC additional sources of finance unless a detailed system of stabilisers is agreed at or ahead of the summit. Under the most important stabiliser scheme, EC guaranteed prices for cereals would be cut by one percentage point for every per cent by which the annual harvest exceeded 155 mln tonnes, a figure well below what EC farmers are capable of producing in a year of favourable weather conditions. Farm ministers will meet again on November 16 to attempt to hammer out an accord, and Danish diplomatic sources said the meeting could last through several long nights of negotiation. But Tornaes said any thought that success was not ultimately possible would be a gesture of retreat at this stage. EC Commission sources said among the remaining problems were appeals from Southern member states for protection for their small and relatively poor farmers, and calls from France and the Netherlands for significant changes to Commission proposals for arable crops. They added that West Germany appears still reluctant to accept the idea of production ceilings being set at the level of the EC as a whole rather than that of member states. Meanwhile, the ministers made little progress in agreeing a scheme to top up the income of poorer farmers through direct payments, which could help to cushion the impact of stabilisers on them. British minister John MacGregor told journalists :"The proposals as they stand have very few friends." He said a number of countries fear they could simply encourage further unwanted production by giving farmers the cash to improve production methods. Reuter 
BRITAIN TAKES STRONG LINE ON EC FARM BUDGET PLAN

British foreign secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe told his EC colleagues on Monday that Britain wants agreement by December on a detailed plan to curb EC farm spending if it is to sanction an increase in EC budgetary resources. British diplomatic sources quoted Howe as saying that an accord containing detailed figures and involving immediate penalties for farmers in the case of overproduction must be reached in advance of an EC heads of government summit meeting in December. "We require numbers as well as words in all the commodity regimes," Howe was quoted as saying. The EC Commission proposed last month a plan for "budgetary stabilisers" under which there would be reductions in guaranteed prices, restrictions of sales into intervention or increases in coresponsibility levies if output of individual commodities exceeded certain levels. Britain has so far given the clearest backing to the idea, although several other EC states back it in outline. Diplomats say Britain can exercise some leverage on the issue because the EC is in a severe budgetary crisis from which it can only emerge if all 12 member states agree to revise the system by which it is financed. The sources quoted Howe as saying: "An interim or partial solution covering some elements of the Commission package would be unacceptable to the United Kingdom." They said he insisted that any penalties imposed on farmers for exceeding production limits must take effect in the same marketing year as the overproduction, rather than resulting in a price adjustment the following year. Howe also said there should be no question of a special fund which could top up EC farm coffers in the event of an unexpected development such as a major fall in the value of the dollar. The Commission has suggested such a fund to deal with emergency situations. French EC affairs minister Bernard Bosson told journalists that his country could not accept the idea that there should be no emergency reserve. "The British position has become tougher," he said. Howe was speaking at a meeting of EC foreign ministers, which discussed the future of EC finances, and which took place simultaneously with a farm ministers' meeting to consider the Commission's farm spending proposals. Before his meeting got under way, British agriculture minister John MacGregor said he backed the Commission proposal to set the 1988 cereals production ceiling at 155 mln tonnes. Reuter 
STATOIL AWARDS VESLEFRIKK OIL FIELD CONTRACTS

Norwegian state oil company Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap (Statoil) signed contracts worth a total of 1.5 billion Norwegian crowns in connection with the development of the Veslefrikk oil field, Statoil said. Moss Rosenberg Verft of Stavanger has been awarded a contract to convert the the drilling platform West Vision to a floating production platform. The work is to be completed in the summer of 1989. Aker Verdal has been awarded a contract for the engineering, purchasing and construction of the steel jacket for the wellhead platform, also to be completed in 1989, Statoil said. Reuter 
UK SEEKS WINDING UP OF JAMES TENNANT COMMODITIES

The U.K. Government said it would seek the compulsory winding up of James Tennant Commodities Ltd on grounds of public interest and that details would be heard in the High Court on November 18. A Department of Trade and Industry spokesman said that James Tennant was relatively small and that its activities had concentrated on allowing investors to participate in pooled trading schemes in commodity futures. No application had been made for the appointment of a provisional liquidator in the case, he added. Reuter 
COLOMBIA OPENS COFFEE REGISTRATIONS - LDN TRADE

Colombia has opened export registrations for November coffee shipments, trade sources said. No further details were available. Reuter 
UK SUGAR FACTORY CLOSES DUE TO SHORTAGE OF BEET

British Sugar Plc was forced to shut its Ipswich sugar factory on Sunday afternoon due to an acute shortage of beet supplies, a spokesman said, responding to a Reuter inquiry Beet supplies have dried up at Ipswich due to a combination of very wet weather, which has prevented most farmers in the factory's catchment area from harvesting, and last week's hurricane which blocked roads. The Ipswich factory will remain closed until roads are cleared and supplies of beet build up again. This is the first time in many years that a factory has been closed in mid-campaign, the spokesman added. Other factories are continuing to process beet normally, but harvesting remains very difficult in most areas. Ipswich is one of 13 sugar factories operated by British Sugar. It processes in excess of 500,000 tonnes of beet a year out of an annual beet crop of around eight mln tonnes. Despite the closure of Ipswich and the severe harvesting problems in other factory areas, British Sugar is maintaining its estimate of sugar production this campaign at around 1.2 mln tonnes, white value, against 1.34 mln last year, the spokesman said. British Sugar processes all sugar beet grown in the U.K. The sugar beet processing campaign, which began last month, is expected to run until the end of January. Sugar factories normally work 24 hours a day, seven days a week during the campaign. As of October 11, 12 pct of the U.K. Sugar crop had been harvested, little different to the same stage last year when 13 pct had been lifted. Since then, however, very wet weather has severely restricted beet lifting. Harvesting figures for the week to October 18 are not yet available. Reuter 
SALOMON NOT PULLING OUT OF EUROYEN BONDS

<Salomon Brothers Inc> is not withdrawing as a market maker in euroyen bonds, contrary to strong market rumours circulating in London, a London-based spokeswoman for the company's New York headquarters said. Earlier, a spokesman for Salomon Brothers' London operations declined to comment at all on rumours that have been circulating here. Euroyen bond traders had said they were informally contacted by their counterparts at Salomon and told that they would no longer be market makers in those securities. The traders said that Salomon had not notified the Association of International Bond Dealers (AIBD) of its plans to withdraw as a market maker. Under new rules recently adopted by the AIBD, notification would be required if the firm decided it no longer wished to make two-way prices at all times in euroyen bonds. According to dealers at several Japanese banks, Salomon's euroyen bond traders have been in a meeting and unavailable to make prices. Market sources said that Salomon had offered the traders a chance to remain with the firm if they were willing to trade eurobonds denominated in other currencies. Dealers noted that at one point this year, euroyen bond issuance had actually outpaced that of eurodollar denominated bonds, the first time the U.S. Unit has been eclipsed as the currency of choice for international borrowers. Dealers said that given the dollar's recent weakness, the yen could once again top the eurobond issuance tables. Last week, Salomon Brothers announced it would trim its worldwide staff by 800 and withdraw from several areas of business, most specifically short term bank lending. REUTER 
SPRINT II ISSUES 35 MLN DLR REPACKAGED FLOATER

Sprint II, a special purpose corporation based in the Cayman Islands, is issuing 35 mln dlrs of floating rate bonds due November 6, 1992 and priced at 100.10, said Fuji International finance Ltd as lead manager. The bonds are backed by a pool of 48.7 mln dlrs of Japanese ex-warrant bonds. The bonds are priced to yield 20 basis points over the six month London Interbank Offered Rate. They are available in denominations of 100,000 dlrs and are payable on November 6. There is a seven basis point management and underwriting fee, an eight basis point selling concession and a two basis point praecipuum. REUTER 
WILLIAMS HOLDINGS SEEKS MULTIPLE FACILITY

<Williams Holdings Plc> said it has mandated Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd to arrange a 100 mln stg multiple option facility on a committed basis. The facility will be fully underwritten and have a maturity of five years, which can be extended by the borrower under an evergreen option. The facility will also include a tender panel for short term sterling acceptances or multi-currency cash advances. Drawings under the committed standby will be at a margin of 0.10 pct per annum and banks will receive an underwriting fee of 0.0625 pct. The facility will have a utilisation fee of 0.025 pct if more than 25 pct is drawn. Banks are being invited to join the facility at 10 mln stg for 0.05 pct and at five mln stg for 0.04 pct. There will be a renewal fee of 0.01 pct under the evergreen option. REUTER 
ANIMAL FEED SHIP ON FIRE AGAIN AT CHINESE PORT

The Cyprus vessel Fearless, 31,841 tonnes dw, which was on fire, grounded then towed to Yantai, China, in August, had all its cargo reloaded but the cargo in the no. 3 hold caught fire on October 15. The fire was put out with salt water and water from the no.4 hold has spread over most of the cargo. Some water is also in the no.5 hold. Bottom patching was reported complete but only the no.4 starboard wing tank has been pumped out and remains dry. The engine room is flooded to about three metres. The ship was originally loaded with 10,000 tonnes of animal feed. REUTER 
BRITISH BAUXITE VESSEL GROUNDED IN ORINOCO RIVER

Lloyds Shipping Intelligence service said the British bulk carrier Envoy, 75,453 tonnes dw, was grounded at Mile 190 in the Orinoco river on October 16. The vessel was on a voyage from Trombetas, Brazil, to Matanzas, Cuba, carrying 50,000 tonnes of bauxite. Its draught was 36 feet. Attempts to refloat the vessel with the help of six tugs have been unsuccessful. The owners are considering unloading part of the cargo onto barges. REUTER 
ELECTRICTE DE FRANCE ISSUES 15 BILLION YEN BOND

Electricite de France is issuing a 15 billion yen bond due November 1994 paying interest at 1/16 over the six month London Interbank Offered Rate, said IBJ Capital Markets Ltd as lead manager. The bonds, which are priced at par, will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Payment is set for November 20 and they are callable in May 1989. The bonds are guaranteed by the Republic of France. Fees are 12 basis points for management and underwriting and 13 basis points as a selling concession. There is a three basis point praecipuum. REUTER 
BPCC PROPOSES CANCELLATION OF PREFERENCE SHARES

British Printing and Communication Corporation Plc <BPCL.L> has proposed the cancellation of all its preference shares in return for cash payments totalling 14.8 mln stg. BPCC said in a statement, "In view of the enlarged ordinary share capital and the improved financial position of the company, the Board considers that the relatively small amount of preference share capital now represents capital in excess of the company's wants." Shareholder approval will be sought at a meeeting on November 10.If granted, court confirmation will be required. REUTER 
