BAHIA COCOA REVIEW

Showers continued throughout the week in the Bahia cocoa zone, alleviating the drought since early January and improving prospects for the coming temporao, although normal humidity levels have not been restored, Comissaria Smith said in its weekly review. The dry period means the temporao will be late this year. Arrivals for the week ended February 22 were 155,221 bags of 60 kilos making a cumulative total for the season of 5.93 mln against 5.81 at the same stage last year. Again it seems that cocoa delivered earlier on consignment was included in the arrivals figures. Comissaria Smith said there is still some doubt as to how much old crop cocoa is still available as harvesting has practically come to an end. With total Bahia crop estimates around 6.4 mln bags and sales standing at almost 6.2 mln there are a few hundred thousand bags still in the hands of farmers, middlemen, exporters and processors. There are doubts as to how much of this cocoa would be fit for export as shippers are now experiencing dificulties in obtaining +Bahia superior+ certificates. In view of the lower quality over recent weeks farmers have sold a good part of their cocoa held on consignment. Comissaria Smith said spot bean prices rose to 340 to 350 cruzados per arroba of 15 kilos. Bean shippers were reluctant to offer nearby shipment and only limited sales were booked for March shipment at 1,750 to 1,780 dlrs per tonne to ports to be named. New crop sales were also light and all to open ports with June/July going at 1,850 and 1,880 dlrs and at 35 and 45 dlrs under New York july, Aug/Sept at 1,870, 1,875 and 1,880 dlrs per tonne FOB. Routine sales of butter were made. March/April sold at 4,340, 4,345 and 4,350 dlrs. April/May butter went at 2.27 times New York May, June/July at 4,400 and 4,415 dlrs, Aug/Sept at 4,351 to 4,450 dlrs and at 2.27 and 2.28 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 4,480 dlrs and 2.27 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said. Destinations were the U.S., Covertible currency areas, Uruguay and open ports. Cake sales were registered at 785 to 995 dlrs for March/April, 785 dlrs for May, 753 dlrs for Aug and 0.39 times New York Dec for Oct/Dec. Buyers were the U.S., Argentina, Uruguay and convertible currency areas. Liquor sales were limited with March/April selling at 2,325 and 2,380 dlrs, June/July at 2,375 dlrs and at 1.25 times New York July, Aug/Sept at 2,400 dlrs and at 1.25 times New York Sept and Oct/Dec at 1.25 times New York Dec, Comissaria Smith said. Total Bahia sales are currently estimated at 6.13 mln bags against the 1986/87 crop and 1.06 mln bags against the 1987/88 crop. Final figures for the period to February 28 are expected to be published by the Brazilian Cocoa Trade Commission after carnival which ends midday on February 27. Reuter 
TALKING POINT/BANKAMERICA <BAC> EQUITY OFFER

BankAmerica Corp is not under pressure to act quickly on its proposed equity offering and would do well to delay it because of the stock's recent poor performance, banking analysts said. Some analysts said they have recommended BankAmerica delay its up to one-billion-dlr equity offering, which has yet to be approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission. BankAmerica stock fell this week, along with other banking issues, on the news that Brazil has suspended interest payments on a large portion of its foreign debt. The stock traded around 12, down 1/8, this afternoon, after falling to 11-1/2 earlier this week on the news. Banking analysts said that with the immediate threat of the First Interstate Bancorp <I> takeover bid gone, BankAmerica is under no pressure to sell the securities into a market that will be nervous on bank stocks in the near term. BankAmerica filed the offer on January 26. It was seen as one of the major factors leading the First Interstate withdrawing its takeover bid on February 9. A BankAmerica spokesman said SEC approval is taking longer than expected and market conditions must now be re-evaluated. "The circumstances at the time will determine what we do," said Arthur Miller, BankAmerica's Vice President for Financial Communications, when asked if BankAmerica would proceed with the offer immediately after it receives SEC approval. "I'd put it off as long as they conceivably could," said Lawrence Cohn, analyst with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith. Cohn said the longer BankAmerica waits, the longer they have to show the market an improved financial outlook. Although BankAmerica has yet to specify the types of equities it would offer, most analysts believed a convertible preferred stock would encompass at least part of it. Such an offering at a depressed stock price would mean a lower conversion price and more dilution to BankAmerica stock holders, noted Daniel Williams, analyst with Sutro Group. Several analysts said that while they believe the Brazilian debt problem will continue to hang over the banking industry through the quarter, the initial shock reaction is likely to ease over the coming weeks. Nevertheless, BankAmerica, which holds about 2.70 billion dlrs in Brazilian loans, stands to lose 15-20 mln dlrs if the interest rate is reduced on the debt, and as much as 200 mln dlrs if Brazil pays no interest for a year, said Joseph Arsenio, analyst with Birr, Wilson and Co. He noted, however, that any potential losses would not show up in the current quarter. With other major banks standing to lose even more than BankAmerica if Brazil fails to service its debt, the analysts said they expect the debt will be restructured, similar to way Mexico's debt was, minimizing losses to the creditor banks. Reuter 
NATIONAL AVERAGE PRICES FOR FARMER-OWNED RESERVE

The U.S. Agriculture Department reported the farmer-owned reserve national five-day average price through February 25 as follows (Dlrs/Bu-Sorghum Cwt) - Natl Loan Release Call Avge Rate-X Level Price Price Wheat 2.55 2.40 IV 4.65 -- V 4.65 -- VI 4.45 -- Corn 1.35 1.92 IV 3.15 3.15 V 3.25 -- X - 1986 Rates. Natl Loan Release Call Avge Rate-X Level Price Price Oats 1.24 0.99 V 1.65 -- Barley n.a. 1.56 IV 2.55 2.55 V 2.65 -- Sorghum 2.34 3.25-Y IV 5.36 5.36 V 5.54 -- Reserves I, II and III have matured. Level IV reflects grain entered after Oct 6, 1981 for feedgrain and after July 23, 1981 for wheat. Level V wheat/barley after 5/14/82, corn/sorghum after 7/1/82. Level VI covers wheat entered after January 19, 1984. X-1986 rates. Y-dlrs per CWT (100 lbs). n.a.-not available. Reuter 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - BANKAMERICA <BAC>

BankAmerica Corp is not under pressure to act quickly on its proposed equity offering and would do well to delay it because of the stock's recent poor performance, banking analysts said. Some analysts said they have recommended BankAmerica delay its up to one-billion-dlr equity offering, which has yet to be approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission. BankAmerica stock fell this week, along with other banking issues, on the news that Brazil has suspended interest payments on a large portion of its foreign debt. The stock traded around 12, down 1/8, this afternoon, after falling to 11-1/2 earlier this week on the news. Banking analysts said that with the immediate threat of the First Interstate Bancorp <I> takeover bid gone, BankAmerica is under no pressure to sell the securities into a market that will be nervous on bank stocks in the near term. BankAmerica filed the offer on January 26. It was seen as one of the major factors leading the First Interstate withdrawing its takeover bid on February 9. A BankAmerica spokesman said SEC approval is taking longer than expected and market conditions must now be re-evaluated. "The circumstances at the time will determine what we do," said Arthur Miller, BankAmerica's Vice President for Financial Communications, when asked if BankAmerica would proceed with the offer immediately after it receives SEC approval. "I'd put it off as long as they conceivably could," said Lawrence Cohn, analyst with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith. Cohn said the longer BankAmerica waits, the longer they have to show the market an improved financial outlook. Although BankAmerica has yet to specify the types of equities it would offer, most analysts believed a convertible preferred stock would encompass at least part of it. Such an offering at a depressed stock price would mean a lower conversion price and more dilution to BankAmerica stock holders, noted Daniel Williams, analyst with Sutro Group. Several analysts said that while they believe the Brazilian debt problem will continue to hang over the banking industry through the quarter, the initial shock reaction is likely to ease over the coming weeks. Nevertheless, BankAmerica, which holds about 2.70 billion dlrs in Brazilian loans, stands to lose 15-20 mln dlrs if the interest rate is reduced on the debt, and as much as 200 mln dlrs if Brazil pays no interest for a year, said Joseph Arsenio, analyst with Birr, Wilson and Co. He noted, however, that any potential losses would not show up in the current quarter. With other major banks standing to lose even more than BankAmerica if Brazil fails to service its debt, the analysts said they expect the debt will be restructured, similar to way Mexico's debt was, minimizing losses to the creditor banks. Reuter 
BONUS WHEAT FLOUR FOR NORTH YEMEN  -- USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted an export bonus offer to cover the sale of 37,000 long tons of wheat flour to North Yemen, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The wheat four is for shipment March-May and the bonus awarded was 119.05 dlrs per tonnes and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory. The bonus was awarded to the Pillsbury Company. The wheat flour purchases complete the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced in April, 1986, it said. Reuter 
MAGMA LOWERS COPPER 0.75 CENT TO 66 CTS

Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is cutting its copper cathode price by 0.75 cent to 66 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
BANKERS REPORT BREAKTHROUGH ON VENEZUELAN DEBT

Venezuela and its bank advisory committee have agreed in principle on revisions to the terms of a 21 billion dlr debt-rescheduling package signed last February, bankers said. They declined to disclose details because two or three representatives on the panel have still to obtain the approval of their senior management for the new terms. The committee was meeting in New York this afternoon and could put its final stamp of approval of the deal later today, the bankers said. "A number of details have still to be finalized, but the broad details of the new amortization schedules and interest rates are in place," one senior banker said. The interest rate on the rescheduling was originally set at 1-1/8 pct over Eurodollar rates, but Venezuela requested easier terms because of a 40 pct drop in oil income last year. It also asked for a reduction in the repayments it was due to make in 1987, 1988 and 1989 - after an earlier request that it make no amortizations at all in those years was rebuffed - and sought a commitment from the banks to finance new investment in Venezuela. The breakthrough in the Venezuelan talks, which have been going on intermittently for several months, follows the announcement earlier today of a 10.6 billion dlr debt rescheduling pact between Chile and its bank advisory panel. And last night Citibank said Mexico's financing package, including a 7.7 billion dlr loan, will be signed on March 20. While the sudden progress is to some extent coincidental, bankers acknowledge a desire to chalk up some quick successes after the shock of Brazil's unilateral interest suspension last Friday. By striking swift deals, banks hope to reduce the incentive for other debtors to emulate Brazil. Reuter 
TOWER REPORT DIMINISHES REAGAN'S HOPES OF REBOUND

The Tower Commission report, which says President Reagan was ignorant about much of the Iran arms deal, just about ends his prospects of regaining political dominance in Washington, political analysts said. "This is certification of incompetence," private political analyst Stephen Hess told Reuters in commenting on the Tower report made public today. "It's as if he went before a professional licensing board and was denied credentials." In one of the most direct criticisms, board chairman John Tower, a longtime Reagan supporter and former Republican senator from Texas, told a press conference, "The president clearly did not understand the nature of this operation." The report, which lent credence to widespread opinion in Washington that Reagan is not in full command of the government, was particularly damaging because it was prepared by a board of the Republican president's own choosing. The three-member panel made up of Tower, former National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft and former Secretary of State Edmund Muskie, does not carry the partisan taint of criticism from a Congress controlled by the Democratic party. "We're falling by our own hand," said one Republican political strategist. "What can we say except 'we're sorry, we won't do it again'?" The strategist, who works for one of his party's top 1988 presidential contenders and asked not to be identified, said the report was like "an anvil falling on us." Hess, with the Brookings Institution public policy study group, said the report is the final blow to Reagan's hopes of regaining the upper hand he once had in dealings with Congress, the press and the Washington bureaucracy. The report may also undermine the standing of Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and Secretary of State George Shultz, who the report suggests were more interested in keeping their own skirts clean than supporting the president. "They protected the record as to their own positions on this issue. They were not energetic in attempting to protect the president from the consequences," it said. White House chief of staff Donald Regan and former Central Intelligence Agency Director William Casey also received strong criticism, but the blows were expected in their cases. Regan, expected to resign or be fired shortly, was savaged for allegedly failing both to help Reagan conduct the Iran initiative and to avoid "chaos" in the disclosure process. Casey, who underwent surgery for removal of a cancerous brain tumor in December, had already resigned for health reasons last month. "This is a story about people who came up somewhat short of being heroes," Tower told reporters. While Reagan retains considerable constitutional powers, including command of the armed forces and the right to veto legislation, analysts say it will be difficult for him to retake control of the country's policy agenda -- particularly with Congress controlled by the Democrats. The crucial remaining question, they said, is whether the man in the street will forsake Reagan over the affair. Although his job approval rating has fallen as much as twenty percentage points in some opinion polls since the arms deal with Iran became public last November, his personal popularity is still relatively high. A Los Angeles Times poll released earlier this week showed that just 37 pct of those surveyed thought Reagan was in control of the government, but 55 pct still thought he was doing a good job as president. American Enterprise Institute analyst William Schneider, a Democrat, says Reagan's loss of support among Washington power brokers could be offset by continued backing of the public. "In the past, he has been able to go around the power elite by appealing directly to the public," Schneider said. Reagan will again plead his case that way in a televised address next week. But one top Republican strategist warned against expecting a dramatic turnaround. "The White House has to avoid building expectations that cannot be met," said the strategist, who requested anonymity. "They have to recognize there is no quick fix." Analysts also point out that Reagan's personal popularity has not always translated into public backing for his policies. They note he was dramatically rebuffed in last November's elections when voters rejected his appeals and restored control of the Senate to the Democrats. Reuter 
JANUARY HOUSING SALES DROP, REALTY GROUP SAYS

Sales of previously owned homes dropped 14.5 pct in January to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.47 mln units, the National Association of Realtors (NAR) said. But the December rate of 4.06 mln units had been the highest since the record 4.15 mln unit sales rate set in November 1978, the group said. "The drop in January is not surprising considering that a significant portion of December's near-record pace was made up of sellers seeking to get favorable capital gains treatment under the old tax laws," said the NAR's John Tuccillo. Reuter 
SHULTZ SAYS NO RESIGNATION OVER IRAN REPORT

Secretary of State George Shultz acknowledged failings in the Iran arms affair but declared he would not resign. His role in the scandal that has scarred the Reagan administration attracted harsh criticism from the Tower commission in its report on the affair published today. Shultz, travelling to China for a week-long visit, refused to comment directly on the report, published after he had left Washington. But he repeated -- as he has done since the crisis broke last November -- that he was not going to resign. "You can wipe that off your slate," he said. Reuter 
U.S. SUGAR IMPORTS DOWN IN WEEK - USDA

Sugar imports subject to the U.S. sugar import quota during the week ended January 9, the initial week of the 1987 sugar quota year, totaled 5,988 short tons versus 46,254 tons the previous week, the Agriculture Department said. The sugar import quota for the 1987 quota year (January-December) has been set at 1,001,430 short tons compared with 1,850,000 tons in the 1986 quota year, which was extended three months to December 31. The department said the Customs Service has reported that weekly and cumulative imports are reported on an actual weight basis and when final polarizations are received, cumulative import data are adjusted accordingly. Reuter 
AGENCY REPORTS 39 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL

The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its daily operations report that there was a backlog of 39 ships waiting to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects -- 2/26 2/27 Due: 27 35 Scheduled to Transit: 35 41 End-Day Backlog: 31 25 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels North End: 13 hrs 15 hrs South End: 4 hrs 26 hrs Reuter 
CCC CREDITS FOR HONDURAS SWITCHED TO WHITE CORN

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) announced 1.5 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked to cover sales of dry edible beans to Honduras have been switched to cover sales of white corn, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the action reduces coverage for sales of dry edible beans to 500,000 dlrs and creates the new line of 1.5 mln dlrs for sales of white corn. All sales under the credit guarantee line must be registered and shipped by September 30, 1987, it said. Reuter 
ASSETS OF U.S. MONEY FUNDS ROSE IN WEEK

Assets of money market mutual funds increased 720.4 mln dlrs in the week ended yesterday to 236.90 billion dlrs, the Investment Company Institute said. Assets of 91 institutional funds rose 356 mln dlrs to 66.19 billion dlrs, 198 general purpose funds rose 212.5 mln dlrs to 62.94 billion dlrs and 92 broker-dealer funds rose 151.9 mln dlrs to 107.77 billion dlrs. Reuter 
GULF BARGE FREIGHT RATES UP FURTHER ON CALL

Gulf barge freight rates firmed again on the outlook for steady vessel loadings at the Gulf, increasing the demand for barges to supply those ships, dealers said. No barges traded today on the St Louis Merchants' Exchange call session, versus 29 yesterday. Quotes included - - Delivery this week on the Illinois River (Joliet) 135 pct of tariff bid/140 offered, with next week same river (ex Chicago) quoted the same - both up 2-1/2 percentage points. - Next week Mississippi River (St Louis) 120 pct bid/127-1/2 offered - up five points. - Next week Ohio River (Owensboro/south) 125 pct bid/132-1/2 offered - up 7-1/2 points. - On station Illinois River (south Chicago) 135 pct bid/140 offered - no comparison. - March Illinois (ex Chicago) 132-1/2 pct bid/140 offered - up 2-1/2 points. - March Ohio River bid at yesterday's traded level of 125 pct, offered at 132-1/2. - March lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) 112-1/2 pct bid/120 offered - no comparison. - May Illinois River (ex Chicago) 100 pct bid/107-1/2 offered - no comparison. - Sept/Nov Lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) 137-1/2 pct bid/145 offered, with Sept/Dec same section 125 pct bid/135 offered - no comparison. Reuter 
U.S. WEEKLY SOYBEAN CRUSH 21,782,929 BUSHELS

Reporting members of the National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 21,782,929 bushels of soybeans in the week ended Feb 25 compared with 22,345,718 bushels in the previous week and 16,568,000 in the year-ago week, the association said. It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904 bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels last year. NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were 117,866 tonnes vs 121,168 tonnes a week ago and compared with 84,250 tonnes in the year-ago week. NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms. Reuter 
U.S. COMMERCIAL PAPER FALLS 375 MLN DLRS IN FEB 18 WEEK, FED SAYS



N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 195 MLN DLRS IN FEB 18 WEEK, FED SAYS



NEW YORK BANK DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS 64 MLN DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK



NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 195 MLN DLRS

Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 195 mln dlrs to 65.06 billion in the week ended February 18, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. Including acceptances, loans declined 114 mln dlrs to 65.89 billion. Commercial paper outstanding nationally dropped 375 mln dlrs to 336.63 billion. National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. Reuter 
N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 64 MLN DLRS

The eight major New York City banks had 64 mln dlrs in average borrowings from the Federal Reserve in the week to Wednesday February 25, a Fed spokesman said. The week marked the second half of the two-week bank statement period that ended on Wednesday. The banks had no borrowings in the prior week. Commenting on the latest week, a Fed spokesman said that all of the borrowing occurred yesterday and was done by fewer than half of the banks. National data on discount window borrowings are due to be released at 1630 EST (2130 GMT). Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 2.1 BILLION DLRS IN FEB 16 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 310 MLN DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BANK NET FREE RESERVES 644 MLN DLRS IN TWO WEEKS TO FEB 25, FED SAYS



ASCS TERMINAL MARKET VALUES FOR PIK GRAIN

The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) has established these unit values for commodities offered from government stocks through redemption of Commodity Credit Corporation commodity certificates, effective through the next business day. Price per bushel is in U.S. dollars. Sorghum is priced per CWT, corn yellow grade only. WHEAT HRW HRS SRW SWW DURUM Chicago -- 3.04 2.98 -- -- Ill. Track -- -- 3.16 -- -- Toledo -- 3.04 2.98 2.90 -- Memphis -- -- 3.05 -- -- Peoria -- -- 3.11 -- -- Denver 2.62 2.63 -- -- -- Evansville -- -- 2.99 -- -- Cincinnati -- -- 2.96 -- -- Minneapolis 2.65 2.71 -- -- 3.70 Baltimore/ Norf./Phil. -- -- 3.06 2.98 -- Kansas City 2.87 -- 3.17 -- -- St. Louis 3.03 -- 3.03 -- -- Amarillo/ Lubbock 2.64 -- -- -- -- HRW HRS SRW SWW DURUM Lou. Gulf -- -- 3.16 -- -- Portland/ Seattle 3.07 3.08 -- 3.10 3.70 Stockton 2.78 -- -- -- -- L.A. 3.23 -- -- -- 4.05 Duluth 2.65 2.71 -- -- 3.70 Tex. Gulf 3.10 -- 3.16 -- -- CORN BRLY OATS RYE SOYB SORG Chicago 1.47 -- -- -- 4.81 2.49 Ill. Track 1.49 2.04 -- -- 4.85 2.52 Toledo 1.41 2.04 1.50 -- 4.78 2.39 Memphis 1.59 1.95 1.71 -- 4.90 2.86 Peoria 1.51 --- -- -- 4.80 2.60 Denver 1.56 1.56 -- -- -- 2.54 Evnsvlle 1.54 2.04 1.50 2.17 4.90 2.61 Cinci 1.52 2.04 1.50 2.17 4.85 2.58 Mpls 1.34 1.75 1.50 1.85 4.68 -- Balt/Nor/ Phil 1.70 1.80 -- -- 4.98 3.12 KC 1.49 1.56 1.64 -- 4.76 2.58 St Lo 1.54 -- 1.66 -- 4.90 2.91 Amarlo/ Lubbck 1.84 1.40 -- -- 4.75 2.92 Lou Gulf 1.73 -- -- -- 5.05 3.12 Port/ Seattle 1.87 2.10 1.68 -- -- -- Stockton 2.18 2.23 2.10 -- -- 4.00 LA 2.54 2.50 -- -- -- 4.38 Duluth 1.34 1.75 1.50 1.85 4.68 -- Tex Gulf 1.73 1.48 1.73 -- 5.05 3.12 Reuter 












WORLD MARKET PRICE FOR UPLAND COTTON - USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department announced the prevailing world market price, adjusted to U.S. quality and location, for Strict Low Middling, 1-1/16 inch upland cotton at 52.69 cts per lb, to be in effect through midnight March 5. The adjusted world price is at average U.S. producing locations (near Lubbock, Texas) and will be further adjusted for other qualities and locations. The price will be used in determining First Handler Cotton Certificate payment rates. Based on data for the week ended February 26, the adjusted world price for upland cotton is determined as follows, in cts per lb -- Northern European Price 66.32 Adjustments -- Average U.S. spot mkt location 10.42 SLM 1-1/16 inch cotton 1.80 Average U.S. location 0.53 Sum of adjustments 12.75 Adjusted world price 53.57 Reuter 
SUGAR QUOTA IMPORTS DETAILED -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department said cumulative sugar imports from individual countries during the 1987 quota year, which began January 1, 1987 and ends December 31, 1987 were as follows, with quota allocations for the quota year in short tons, raw value -- CUMULATIVE QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS ARGENTINA nil 39,130 AUSTRALIA nil 75,530 BARBADOS nil 7,500 BELIZE nil 10,010 BOLIVIA nil 7,500 BRAZIL nil 131,950 CANADA nil 18,876 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS COLOMBIA 103 21,840 CONGO nil 7,599 COSTA RICA nil 17,583 IVORY COAST nil 7,500 DOM REP 5,848 160,160 ECUADOR nil 10,010 EL SALVADOR nil 26,019.8 FIJI nil 25,190 GABON nil 7,500 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS GUATEMALA nil 43,680 GUYANA nil 10,920 HAITI nil 7,500 HONDURAS nil 15,917.2 INDIA nil 7,500 JAMAICA nil 10,010 MADAGASCAR nil 7,500 MALAWI nil 9,,100 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS MAURITIUS nil 10,920 MEXICO 37 7,500 MOZAMBIQUE nil 11,830 PANAMA nil 26,390 PAPUA NEW GUINEA nil 7,500 PARAGUAY nil 7,500 PERU nil 37,310 PHILIPPINES nil 143,780 ST.CHRISTOPHER- NEVIS nil 7,500 QUOTA 1987 IMPORTS ALLOCATIONS SWAZILAND nil 14,560 TAIWAN nil 10,920 THAILAND nil 12,740 TRINIDAD-TOBAGO nil 7,500 URUGUAY nil 7,500 ZIMBABWE nil 10,920 Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND

There were seven grain ships loading and six ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter 
U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 310 MLN DLRS

U.S. bank discount window borrowings less extended credits averaged 310 mln dlrs in the week to Wednesday February 25, the Federal Reserve said. The Fed said that overall borrowings in the week fell 131 mln dlrs to 614 mln dlrs, with extended credits up 10 mln dlrs at 304 mln dlrs. The week was the second half of a two-week statement period. Net borrowings in the prior week averaged 451 mln dlrs. Commenting on the two-week statement period ended February 25, the Fed said that banks had average net free reserves of 644 mln dlrs a day, down from 1.34 billion two weeks earlier. A Federal Reserve spokesman told a press briefing that there were no large single day net misses in the Fed's reserve projections in the week to Wednesday. He said that natural float had been "acting a bit strangely" for this time of year, noting that there had been poor weather during the latest week. The spokesman said that natural float ranged from under 500 mln dlrs on Friday, for which he could give no reason, to nearly one billion dlrs on both Thursday and Wednesday. The Fed spokeman could give no reason for Thursday's high float, but he said that about 750 mln dlrs of Wednesday's float figure was due to holdover and transportation float at two widely separated Fed districts. For the week as a whole, he said that float related as of adjustments were "small," adding that they fell to a negative 750 mln dlrs on Tuesday due to a number of corrections for unrelated cash letter errors in six districts around the country. The spokesman said that on both Tuesday and Wednesday, two different clearing banks had system problems and the securities and Federal funds wires had to be held open until about 2000 or 2100 EST on both days. However, he said that both problems were cleared up during both afternoons and there was no evidence of any reserve impact. During the week ended Wednesday, 45 pct of net discount window borrowings were made by the smallest banks, with 30 pct by the 14 large money center banks and 25 pct by large regional institutions. On Wednesday, 55 pct of the borrowing was accounted for by the money center banks, with 30 pct by the large regionals and 15 pct by the smallest banks. The Fed spokesman said the banking system had excess reserves on Thursday, Monday and Tuesday and a deficit on Friday and Wedndsday. That produced a small daily average deficit for the week as a whole. For the two-week period, he said there were relatively high excess reserves on a daily avearge, almost all of which were at the smallest banks. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY ROSE 2.1 BILLION DLRS

U.S. M-1 money supply rose 2.1 billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 736.7 billion dlrs in the February 16 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 734.6 billion dlrs from 734.2 billion dlrs, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 735.0 billion dlrs from 733.5 billion. Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 should be anywhere from down four billion dlrs to up 2.3 billion dlrs. The average forecast called for a 300 mln dlr M-1 rise. Reuter 
CHINESE PORK OUTPUT SEEN LOWER -- USDA

High feed prices will cause the Chinese to reduce hog herd growth and pork production this year, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said hog numbers at the start of 1987 were estimated at 331.6 mln head, up slightly from 1986, and 10 mln head above earlier projections for 1987. Pork production in 1986 was up 4.2 pct to 17.25 mln tonnes, slightly below earlier estimates, it said. For 1987, production is projected to fall to 17.05 mln tonnes. Feed prices at the end of January were reported 35 to 40 pct above year-ago levels, the department said. Reuter 
LANDMARK BANCSHARES <LBC> TO BE LISTED ON NYSE

Landmark Bancshares Corp said it expects its stock to begin trading on March 26 on the New York Stock Exchange. The company, whose stock has traded on the American Stock Exchange since November 1984, said it will retain its symbol, LBC, when trading begins on the Big Board. Reuter 
U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK

U.S. grain carloadings totaled 26,108 cars in the week ended February 21, down 2.2 pct from the previous week but 22.8 pct above the corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads reported. Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 11,382 cars, down 1.8 pct from the previous week but 7.6 pct above the same week a year earlier, the association said. Reuter 
DIAMOND SHAMROCK (DIA) CUTS CRUDE PRICES

Diamond Shamrock Corp said that effective today it had cut its contract prices for crude oil by 1.50 dlrs a barrel. The reduction brings its posted price for West Texas Intermediate to 16.00 dlrs a barrel, the copany said. "The price reduction today was made in the light of falling oil product prices and a weak crude oil market," a company spokeswoman said. Diamond is the latest in a line of U.S. oil companies that have cut its contract, or posted, prices over the last two days citing weak oil markets. Reuter 






GAO LIKELY TO SHOW CERTS MORE COSTLY THAN CASH

A study on grain certificates due out shortly from the Government Accounting Office (GAO) could show that certificates cost the government 10 to 15 pct more than cash outlays, administration and industry sources said. Analysis that the GAO has obtained from the Agriculture Department and the Office of Management and Budget suggests that certificates cost more than cash payments, a GAO official told Reuters. GAO is preparing the certificate study at the specific request of Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.), former chairman of the senate agriculture committee. The report, which will focus on the cost of certificates compared to cash, is scheduled to be released in mid March. The cost of certificates, said the GAO source, depends on the program's impact on the USDA loan program. If GAO determines that certificates encourage more loan entries or cause more loan forfeitures, then the net cost of the program would go up. However, if it is determined that certificates have caused the government grain stockpile to decrease, the cost effect of certificates would be less. GAO will not likely suggest whether the certificates program should be slowed or expanded, the GAO official said. But a negative report on certificates "will fuel the fire against certificates and weigh heavily on at least an increase in the certificate program," an agricultural consultant said. The OMB is said to be against any expansion of the program, while USDA remains firmly committed to it. Reuter 
OPEC MAY HAVE TO MEET TO FIRM PRICES - ANALYSTS

OPEC may be forced to meet before a scheduled June session to readdress its production cutting agreement if the organization wants to halt the current slide in oil prices, oil industry analysts said. "The movement to higher oil prices was never to be as easy as OPEC thought. They may need an emergency meeting to sort out the problems," said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, CERA. Analysts and oil industry sources said the problem OPEC faces is excess oil supply in world oil markets. "OPEC's problem is not a price problem but a production issue and must be addressed in that way," said Paul Mlotok, oil analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. He said the market's earlier optimism about OPEC and its ability to keep production under control have given way to a pessimistic outlook that the organization must address soon if it wishes to regain the initiative in oil prices. But some other analysts were uncertain that even an emergency meeting would address the problem of OPEC production above the 15.8 mln bpd quota set last December. "OPEC has to learn that in a buyers market you cannot have deemed quotas, fixed prices and set differentials," said the regional manager for one of the major oil companies who spoke on condition that he not be named. "The market is now trying to teach them that lesson again," he added. David T. Mizrahi, editor of Mideast reports, expects OPEC to meet before June, although not immediately. However, he is not optimistic that OPEC can address its principal problems. "They will not meet now as they try to take advantage of the winter demand to sell their oil, but in late March and April when demand slackens," Mizrahi said. But Mizrahi said that OPEC is unlikely to do anything more than reiterate its agreement to keep output at 15.8 mln bpd." Analysts said that the next two months will be critical for OPEC's ability to hold together prices and output. "OPEC must hold to its pact for the next six to eight weeks since buyers will come back into the market then," said Dillard Spriggs of Petroleum Analysis Ltd in New York. But Bijan Moussavar-Rahmani of Harvard University's Energy and Environment Policy Center said that the demand for OPEC oil has been rising through the first quarter and this may have prompted excesses in its production. "Demand for their (OPEC) oil is clearly above 15.8 mln bpd and is probably closer to 17 mln bpd or higher now so what we are seeing characterized as cheating is OPEC meeting this demand through current production," he told Reuters in a telephone interview. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY SAYS IT WILL PARTICIPATE WITH OTHERS IN 500 MLN DLR BRIDGE LOAN TO ARGENTINA



BANKS EXPRESS GRAVE CONCERN ON BRAZIL DEBT MOVES

Brazil's 14-bank advisory committee expressed "grave concern" to chief debt negotiator Antonio Padua de Seixas over the country's suspension of interest payments, according to a telex from committee chairman Citibank to creditor banks worldwide. Bankers said the diplomatic phrase belied the deep anger and frustration on the committee over Brazil's unilateral move last Friday and its subsequent freeze on some 15 billion dlrs of short-term trade and interbank lines. Seixas, director of the Brazilian central bank's foreign debt department, met the full panel on Tuesday and Wednesday. Seixas, who met again this morning with senior Citibank executive William Rhodes and representatives from committee vice-chairmen Morgan Guaranty Trust Co and Lloyds Bank Plc, told the banks that the government was preparing a telex to explain and clarify the freeze on short-term credits. The telex could be sent to creditors as early as today, bankers said. Despite the rising tempers, bankers said there are no plans for Brazilian finance minister Dilson Funaro to meet commercial bankers during his trip to Washington on Friday and Saturday. Funaro will be explaining Brazil's actions to U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker and International Monetary Fund managing director Michel Camdessus before travelling to Europe at the weekend. Meanwhile, bankers were to hear in New York this afternoon what impact Brazil's hard line would have on Argentina, with an initial presentation from Argentine Treasury Secretary Mario Brodersohn on his country's request for 2.15 billion dlrs in new loans and a multi-year rescheduling agreement. Argentina has threatened to emulate Brazil's payments moratorium if the banks do not grant its request. Reuter 
LNG IMPORTS FROM ALGERIA UNLIKELY IN 1987

Liquefied natural gas imports from Algeria are unlikely to happen in 1987 even though its economically feasible, U.S. industry analysts sources said. Youcef Yousfi, director-general of Sonatrach, the Algerian state petroleum agency, indicated in a television interview in Algiers that such imports would be made this year. "Contract negotiations, filing with the U.S. government and the time required to restart mothballed terminals will delay the import until 1988/1989," Daniel Tulis, a natural gas analyst with Shearson Lehman Bros. said. Sonatrach is currently negotiating with two of its former customers, Panhandle Eastern <PEL> and Distrigas, a subsidiary of Cabot Corp <CBT> to resume LNG export, company officials told Reuters. A third, El Paso Gas, a subsidiary of Burlington Northern <BNI>, has expressed no interest. Industry analysts said some imports of Algerian LNG were feasible. "On a marginal cost basis, the companies that have made capital investment to handle LNG import can operate profitably even in the current price environment," Frank Spadine, an energy economist with Bankers Trust, said. Analysts did not forsee a major impact from Algerian imports on U.S. prices which are currently soft but expected to trend higher by the end of 1987. A decline in gas drilling and the time lag to bring Gulf of Mexico productions onstream will tighten gas supplies and firm prices, Shearson's Tulis said. In this context, Algerian LNG import would be a source of supplemental supply to U.S. domestic production, he added. Company sources currently in talks with Algeria agree, saying that Algerian LNG would only serve to meet peak demand. Company sources also said that any negotiations with Algeria would emphasize looser arrangements which would relate volumes to market requirements and prices to U.S. spot market values. Reuter 
REPORT COULD BE FINAL BLOW FOR REGAN

The Tower Commission's scathing comments on President Reagan's embattled chief of staff Donald Regan could signal the death knell to his White House tenure, but the impact of its strong criticism on two other top officials was less clear. Regan has come in for tough criticism for his handling of Reagan's worst political crisis since details of the covert arms sales to Iran and diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels first emerged last November. But criticism of the roles of Secretary of State George Shultz and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, who said they opposed the Iran arms initiative yet failed to end it, had been muted until the release of the Tower Commission report. "Their obligation was to give the president their full support and continued advice with respect to the program or, if they could not in conscience do that, to so inform the president," the report said after a three-month probe. "Instead, they simply distanced themselves from the program. They protected the record as to their own positions on this issue. They were not energetic in attempting to protect the president from the consequences of his personal commitment to freeing the hostages." The report saved some of its most scathing language for Regan, a gruff former Wall Street executive and close personal friend of Reagan whose autocratic rule in the White House angered some top Reagan officials and, perhaps more importantly, Reagan's wife Nancy. "More than almost any chief of staff of recent memory, he asserted personal control over the White House staff and sought to extend this control to the national security adviser," said the report. Washington analysts said Regan's departure now appeared to be only a matter of timing. Many expected the president to announce it when he addresses the nation on the Tower Commission's findings next week. With Regan's departure apparently imminent and Poindexter and other key figures in the scandal already out of office, the report's tough criticism of Shultz and Weinberger could turn the spotlight on their future. Senate Republican leader Robert Dole, a key Reagan ally, told reporters the report disclosed "colossal blunders" and said people who had not served the president well should step aside, but he did not specify who should go. "It would seem to me that if you don't protect the president, you don't serve the president well, then you should move on," the Kansas Republican, a likely presidential candidate next year, said. One Republican strategist said he believed Regan would not be the only White House official to leave in the near future. Reuter 
U.S. WHEAT BONUS TO SOVIET CALLED DORMANT

The U.S. Agriculture Department is not actively considering offering subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union under the export enhancement program (EEP), senior USDA officials said. However, grain trade analysts said the proposal has not been ruled out and that an offer might be made, though not in the very near future. "The grain companies are trying to get this fired up again," an aide to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said. "But there just isn't much talk about it, informally or formally." Most analysts interviewed by Reuters were more confident than USDA officials that bonus wheat would be offered to the Soviets, even though U.S. officials did not make such an offer when they held grain talks with Soviet counterparts earlier this week. But administration and private sources agreed that if the Reagan administration did decide to offer subsidized wheat to Moscow, it could take several months. "I just don't see any proposal like that sailing through any interagency process," the aide to Lyng said. "An export enhancement offer is not consummated overnight," said one former USDA official, who noted that the administration took three months to decide in favor of selling China wheat under the subsidy program. An official representing a large grain trade company said deliberations within USDA might be nudged along by members of Congress, a number of whom urged USDA this week to make a wheat subsidy offer to the Soviets. But Lyng's aide said that during a day-long visit to Capitol Hill yesterday, House members did not press the secretary on the subsidy question a single time. The administration's interagency trade policy review group, comprised of subcabinet-level officials, has not been asked to clear a request to offer Moscow wheat under the EEP, officials at the U.S. Trade Representative's Office said. In their talks this week, the two sides discussed the administration's previous EEP offer but did not talk about any new initiative. One USDA official who took part in the consultations this week described them as an exchange of "calm, basic, factual economics." Another USDA official said there was "not even an informal suggestion or hint" that the Soviets would live up to their pledge to buy four mln tonnes of wheat this year if they were granted more favorable terms. USDA and private sources agreed that consideration of an EEP initiative by interagency review groups likely would be delayed because of disarray within the White House stemming from the Iran arms affair. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY PART OF ARGENTINE BRIDGE LOAN

The U.S. Treasury said it was willing to participate with several other industrial countries in providing a 500 mln-dlr short-term bridge loan to Argentina. The Treasury announcecement did not name the other countries nor the amount of financing the United States was willing to supply. Argentina announced a wage and price freeze on Wednesday night and is negotiating with New York bankers for about 2.15 billion dlrs in new loans and other financing. "Our willingness to participate in this multilateral short-term financing indicates our support for Argentina's economic program to achieve sustainable growth and a viable balance of payments position," the Treassury statement said. In announcing a four-month wage and price freeze, Argentine officials said the country needed "a more serene climate" to carry out structural changes in the economy. But Argentina did not suspend interest payments on its foreign debts, as neighboring Brazil did last week. The Treasury said the U.S. share of bridge financing for Argentina would come from its Exchange Stabilization Fund. The one-page statement noted the International Monetary Fund expressed confidence in Argentina's economic policies and prospects by approving a new stand-by financing arrangement for it on February 18. "Argentina is expected to qualify for IMF balance-of-payments financing which would enable Argentina to repay a multilateral bridge loan and support the implementation of its economic program," the statement said. The latest Argentine action marked the second time in less than two years its government has used a wage and price freeze to restrain inflation. The debt talks in New York are being headed by Argentine Finance Minister Mario Brodersohn and are expected to last for several days. Along with new financing, Argentina reportedly wants lower interest rates on an existing total 53 billion dlrs in foreign debt and elimination of foreign banks' control over how some of the money is loaned in Argentina. Reuter 
BANKS EXPRESS GRAVE CONCERN ON BRAZIL DEBT MOVE

Brazil's 14-bank advisory committee expressed "grave concern" to chief debt negotiator Antonio Padua de Seixas over the country's suspension of interest payments, according to a telex from committee chairman Citibank to creditor banks worldwide. Bankers said the diplomatic phrase belied the deep anger and frustration on the committee over Brazil's unilateral move last Friday and its subsequent freeze on some 15 billion dlrs of short-term trade and interbank lines. Seixas, director of the Brazilian central bank's foreign debt department, met the full panel on Tuesday and Wednesday. Seixas, who met again this morning with senior Citibank executive William Rhodes and representatives from committee vice-chairmen Morgan Guaranty Trust Co and Lloyds Bank Plc, told the banks that the government was preparing a telex to explain and clarify the freeze on short-term credits. The telex could be sent to creditors as early as today, bankers said. Despite the rising tempers, bankers said there are no plans for Brazilian finance minister Dilson Funaro to meet commercial bankers during his trip to Washington on Friday and Saturday. Funaro will be explaining Brazil's actions to U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker and International Monetary Fund managing director Michel Camdessus before travelling to Europe at the weekend. Meanwhile, bankers were to hear in New York this afternoon what impact Brazil's hard line would have on Argentina, with an initial presentation from Argentine Treasury Secretary Mario Brodersohn on his country's request for 2.15 billion dlrs in new loans and a multi-year rescheduling agreement. Argentina has threatened to follow Brazil in declaring a payments moratorium if the banks do not grant its request. Reuter 
USDA SAID UNLIKELY TO BROADEN CORN BONUS OFFER

The U.S. Agriculture Department probably will not offer a two dlr per bushel bonus payment to corn farmers for any erodible cropland they enrolled in the conservation reserve program last year, an aide to USDA Secretary Richard Lyng said. Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) said yesterday that Lyng had indicated he would consider giving those farmers the same two dlr bonus offered corn farmers who are signing up for the 1987 program this month. But the aide to Lyng said it was doubtful that the department would offer a retroactive bonus to farmers who enrolled land in the 10-year conservation reserve last year. "How are you going to stop the tide," he said, referring to demands that would follow from other commodity groups. Reuter 
MARATHON PETROLEUM REDUCES CRUDE POSTINGS

Marathon Petroleum Co said it reduced the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective today. The decrease brings Marathon's posted price for both West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 16.50 dlrs a bbl. The South Louisiana Sweet grade of crude was reduced to 16.85 dlrs a bbl. The company last changed its crude postings on Jan 12. Reuter 
RELIEF TO U.S. CORN/OATS GROWERS SAID LIKELY

U.S. farmers who in the past have grown oats for their own use but failed to certify to the government that they had done so probably will be allowed to continue planting that crop and be eligible for corn program benefits, an aide to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said. Currently a farmer, to be eligible for corn program benefits, must restrict his plantings of other program crops to the acreage base for that crop. Several members of Congress from Iowa have complained that farmers who inadvertantly failed to certify that they had grown oats for their own use in the past now are being asked to halt oats production or lose corn program benefits. USDA likely will allow historic oats farmers to plant oats but not extend the exemption to all farmers, Lyng's aide said. Reuter 
FALLING SOYBEAN CRUSH RATIOS CUT OUTPUT

The sharp decline in soybean crush ratios seen in the last few weeks, accelerating in recent days, has pushed margins below the cost of production at most soybean processing plants and prompted many to cut output of soybean meal and oil. The weekly U.S. soybean crush rate was reported by the National Soybean Processors Association this afternoon at 21.78 mln bushels, down from the 22 mln bushel plus rate seen over the past two months when crush margins surged to the best levels seen in over a year. Active soymeal export loadings at the Gulf had pushed soybean futures and premiums higher, prompting a pick-up in the weekly crush number. However, much of that export demand seems to have been met, with most foreign meal users now waiting for the expected surge in shipments of new crop South American soymeal over the next few months. U.S. processors are now finding domestic livestock feed demand is very light for this time of year due to the milder than normal winter, so they steadily dropped offering prices in an attempt to find buying interest, soyproduct dealers said. Soybean meal futures have also steadily declined in recent weeks, setting a new contract low of 139.70 dlrs per ton in the nearby March contract today. "Many speculators down here bought March soymeal and sold May, looking for no deliveries (on first notice day tomorrow, which would cause March to gain on deferreds)," one CBT crush trader said. "But they've been bailing out this week because the March has been acting like there will be a lot delivered, if not tomorrow, then later in the month," he added. As a result of the weakness in soymeal, the March crush ratio (The value of soyproducts less the cost of the soybeans) fell from the mid 30s earlier this month to 22.6 cents per bushel today, dropping over five cents in just the last two days. The May crush ended today just over 17 cents, so no processors will want to lock in a ratio at that unprofitable level, the trader said. Hopefully, they will now start to cut back production to get supplies in line with demand, he added. With futures down, processors are finding they must bid premiums for cash soybeans, further reducing crush margins. A central Illinois processor is only making about 30 cents for every bushel of soybeans crushed at current prices, down sharply from levels just seen just a few weeks ago and below the average cost of production, cash dealers said. Most soybean processing plants are still in operation, with little talk of taking temporary down-time, so far. But processors will start halting production in the next few weeks it they continue to face unprofitable margins, they added. Reuter 
FED DATA SUGGEST STABLE U.S. MONETARY POLICY

Latest Federal Reserve data suggest that the central bank voted to maintain the existing degree of pressure on banking reserves at its regular policy-making meeting two weeks ago, money market economists said. "The numbers were a little disappointing, but I think we can take Mr Volcker at his word when he said that nothing had changed," said Bob Bannon of Security Pacific National Bank. Fed Chairman Paul Volcker told a Congressional committee last Thursday that the Fed's policy "has been unchanged up to today." Although Volcker's statement last Thursday allayed most fears that the Fed had marginally tightened its grip on reserves to help an ailing dollar, many economists still wanted confirmation of a steady policy in today's data, which covered the two-week bank statement period ended yesterday. This need for additional reassurance was made all the more acute by the Fed's decision yesterday to drain reserves from the banking system by arranging overnight matched sale-purchase agreements for the first time since April of last year, economists added. Today's data showed that the draining action was for a fairly large 3.9 billion dlrs, economists said. "The one thing that caught my eye were the relatively sizeable matched sales on Wednesday," said Dana Johnson of First National Bank of Chicago. "But there was a clearly justified need for them. There was nothing ominous." "The Fed couldn't have waited until the start of the new statement period today. If it had, it would have missed its (reserve) projections," added Security Pacific's Bannon. A Fed spokesman told reporters that there were no large single-day net miss in reserve projections in the latest week. Economists similarly shrugged off slightly higher-than- expected adjusted bank borrowings from the Fed's discount window, which averaged 310 mln dlrs a day in the latest week, compared with many economists' forecasts of about 200 mln. For the two-week bank statement period as a whole, the daily borrowing average more than doubled to 381 mln dlrs from 160 in the prior period. "There were wire problems at two large banks on Tuesday and Wednesday, so I am not too bothered about the borrowings," said Scott Winningham of J.S. Winningham and Co. The Wednesday average rose to 946 mln dlrs from 148 mln a week earlier. Lending further support to the stable policy view was a relatively steady federal funds rate of about six pct in the latest week and persistently high levels of excess reserves in the banking system, economists said. "For the time being, the Fed is following a neutral path, with fed funds at about six to 6-1/8 pct," said Darwin Beck of First Boston Corp. "I expect it to continue in that vein." "Excess reserves fell but they are still over a billion dlrs," added First Chicago's Johnson. Banks' excess reserves averaged 1.03 billion dlrs a day in the latest statement period, down from 1.50 billion in the previous one. After the Fed declined to assign a 1987 target growth range to the wayward M-1 money supply measure last week, little attention was paid to a steeper-than-anticipated 2.1 billion dlr jump in the week ended February 16. Looking ahead, economists said the Fed will have to tread a fine line between the dollar's progress in the international currency markets and the development of the domestic economy. "The market has perhaps exaggerated the dollar's effect on Fed policy," said First Chicago's Johnson. "Of course, it will take the dollar into account in future policy decisions but if the economy is weak, it won't pull back from easing." Reuter 
NYSE TO STUDY REGULATION OF SECURITY INDUSTRY

The New York Stock Exchange said it will begin a review of regulation in the securities industry to determine what changes may be needed to maintain the integrity of the market and protect investors in coming years. The Exchange said the study is needed because of the rapid changes taking place in the securities industry. Among the factors it cited were the increase in trading volume, the proliferation of new trading instruments and the rise of computerized trading techniques. The Exchange did not mention, however, the insider trading scandal that has caught several top Wall Street executives. The NYSE said its study will be chaired by Richard R. Shinn, executive vice chairman of the Exchange and former chairman and chief executive officer of <Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.> Other members of the study committee include Charles F. Barbar, former chairman of Arsarco Inc <AR>, Roger Birk, chairman emeritus of Merrill Lynch and Co <MER> and Irwin Guttag, chairman of the NYSE special surveillance committee. The committee's report should be completed by the end of the year, the Exchange said. Reuter 
KOREAN AIR ORDERS MCDONNELL DOUGLAS <MD> MD-11S

McDonnell Douglas Corp said Korean Air signed formal orders for four MD-11 jets with options to buy four more. The company said if the options are exercised, the purchase will total about one billion dlrs. McDonnell Douglas said on December 30 that Korean Air was among the initial 12 customers that placed orders and options for 92 aircraft valued at about nine billion dlrs. Delivery of the first MD-11 is scheduled for the summer of 1990. Korean Airlines currently operates four McDonnell Douglas DC-10 jets. In 1985, it ordered six MD-82s valued at about 150 mln dlrs. Four of these are in service and two will be delivered this year. Reuter 
HOUSTON OIL <HO> RESERVES STUDY COMPLETED

Houston Oil Trust said that independent petroleum engineers completed an annual study that estimates the trust's future net revenues from total proved reserves at 88 mln dlrs and its discounted present value of the reserves at 64 mln dlrs. Based on the estimate, the trust said there may be no money available for cash distributions to unitholders for the remainder of the year. It said the estimates reflect a decrease of about 44 pct in net reserve revenues and 39 pct in discounted present value compared with the study made in 1985. Reuter 
POLL MAJORITY DISAPPROVE OF REAGAN PRESIDENCY

A majority of Americans disapprove of the way Ronald Reagan has handled the presidency and one-third believe he should resign, a new poll said. The poll conducted by Newsweek magazine said 53 pct of the respondents gave Reagan a negative performance rating, nearly double his disapproval rating before the Iran/Contra scandal. The magazine said, however, that Reagan remained personally popular. By better than a three-to-one ratio, a majority of those polled said they liked Reagan on a personal level. And Newsweek said 52 per cent of those questioned believed the administration"s accomplishments outweighed its failures. REUTER 
INDONESIA SEEN AT CROSSROADS OVER ECONOMIC CHANGE

Indonesia appears to be nearing a political crossroads over measures to deregulate its protected economy, the U.S. Embassy says in a new report. To counter falling oil revenues, the government has launched a series of measures over the past nine months to boost exports outside the oil sector and attract new investment. Indonesia, the only Asian member of OPEC and a leading primary commodity producer, has been severely hit by last year"s fall in world oil prices, which forced it to devalue its currency by 31 pct in September. But the U.S. Embassy report says President Suharto"s government appears to be divided over what direction to lead the economy. "(It) appears to be nearing a crossroads with regard to deregulation, both as it pertains to investments and imports," the report says. It primarily assesses Indonesia"s agricultural sector, but also reviews the country"s general economic performance. It says that while many government officials and advisers are recommending further relaxation, "there are equally strong pressures being exerted to halt all such moves." "This group strongly favours an import substitution economy," the report says. Indonesia"s economic changes have been welcomed by the World Bank and international bankers as steps in the right direction, though they say crucial areas of the economy like plastics and steel remain highly protected, and virtual monopolies. Three sets of measures have been announced since last May, which broadened areas for foreign investment, reduced trade restrictions and liberalised imports. The report says Indonesia"s economic growth in calendar 1986 was probably about zero, and the economy may even have contracted a bit. "This is the lowest rate of growth since the mid-1960s," the report notes. Indonesia, the largest country in South-East Asia with a population of 168 million, is facing general elections in April. But the report hold out little hope for swift improvement in the economic outlook. "For 1987 early indications point to a slightly positive growth rate not exceeding one pct. Economic activity continues to suffer due to the sharp fall in export earnings from the petroleum industry." "Growth in the non-oil sector is low because of weak domestic demand coupled with excessive plant capacity, real declines in construction and trade, and a reduced level of growth in agriculture," the report states. Bankers say continuation of present economic reforms is crucial for the government to get the international lending its needs. A new World Bank loan of 300 mln dlrs last month in balance of payments support was given partly to help the government maintain the momentum of reform, the Bank said. REUTER 
INDONESIAN WHEAT IMPORTS EXPECTED TO FALL IN 1987

Indonesia's wheat imports are expected to fall to 1.5 mln tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln in 1986, the U.S. Embassy's annual agriculture report said. It said the drop was expected, because there will be a drawdown on stocks built up near the end of 1986. It said wheat stocks at the end of 1986 were 390,000 tonnes, up from 223,000 at end-1985. It forecast end-1987 stocks at around 290,000 tonnes. The main suppliers in 1986 were Australia (44 pct), the U.S. (29 pct), Canada (12 pct), Argentina (8 pct) and Saudi Arabia (5 pct). REUTER 
SHULTZ LIKELY TO VISIT MOSCOW SOON

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz is likely to visit Moscow soon for talks following new Soviet arms control proposals, U.S. Officials said. The officials told Reuters no decision had been reached on when the trip might take place, but it was likely to be within a month. Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev proposed on Saturday that talks on medium range missiles be separated from other arms issues. Schultz is currently visiting Peking. REUTER 
POLISH BANKER PLEASED WITH WORLD BANK, IMF TALKS

Poland's talks in Washington with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the country's 33.5 billion dlr foreign debt were concrete, open and frank, a senior Polish banker was quoted as saying. Wladyslaw Baka, head of Poland's National Bank, told the official news agency PAP yesterday the talks were a step towards possible fresh credits or easier terms. "Much attention was given to the Polish delegation and the talks at both institutions involved displayed a lot of understanding for Poland's difficult economic position," PAP quoted Baka as saying. Baka said he stressed Poland would meet its financial obligations to the U.S., "but not in a short time, and not without major changes in the Polish economy as well as a cooperative stand on the part of its foreign economic partners." Since Poland rejoined the IMF last June, after a 36-year absence, IMF and World Bank teams have visited Warsaw on fact-finding missions on at least three occasions. A major report is expected to be issued in Washington soon. Poland has said it will not be able to meet interest repayments and debt principle falling due this year. REUTER 
IEL SETS 100 MLN DLR NOTE/COMMERCIAL PAPER ISSUE

Australian investment group <Industrial Equity Ltd> (IEL) said it will raise 100 mln U.S. Dlrs by the issue of medium term notes and commercial paper in the U.S. Domestic market. IEL has mandated <Merrill Lynch Capital Markets> to arrange a letter of credit (LOC) facility in support of the notes and commercial paper, making this the first facility of its kind, the company said in a statement. The notes will be issued by its <IEL Finance Ltd> unit. Merrill Lynch will be the note and paper dealer and <Sumitomo Trust and Banking Co Ltd> will provide the LOC. The term of the LOC is five years with an evergreen feature which provides for annual reinstatement of the five-year term at the support banks' option, IEL said. The LOC will be underwritten by a group of banks which will receive a facility fee of 20 basis points plus a utilisation fee of 25 basis points, it added. REUTER 
SINGAPORE EXCHANGE SEEKING NASDAQ/LONDON LINK

The Stock Exchange of Singapore (SES) plans to introduce electronic trading of shares listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (NASDAQ) in the U.S. And on London's Stock Exchange Automated Quotation System, banking sources said. The SES is discussing the idea with the London and New York authorities. Gordon Macklin, president of the National Association of Securities Dealers in Washington, said he was very optimistic about an early agreement, possibly by the end of this month. Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) sources told Reuters they supported the proposed linking of computer trading systems on the three exchanges, and the banking sources said local financial support for the plan existed. Macklin said if an agreement were reached it would move the three exchanges towards 24-hour trading, with Singapore filling a gap when no trading takes place. A small group of selected stocks would be used at the start of three-centre trading to determine investor interest. The Singapore, London and New York authorities have agreed in principle on how the three exchanges would trade and transfer information among the different time zones, but some details still have to be worked out, a senior Singapore bank director said. Questions remain concerning investor willingness to deploy sufficient capital in Singapore to ensure adequate market liquidity and communication links to the other three centres. But if agreement is reached, Singapore will have a head start over the other Asian financial centres in Hong Kong, Toyko and Australia, he said. On February 18 the SES created the Stock Exchange of Singapore Dealing and Automated Quotation System (SESDAQ), modelled on NASDAQ. At present SESDAQ is trading the shares of only one company, the government-owned Singapore National Printers Ltd (SNP), but its turnover has been fairly active, and other small firms have said they plan to seek listings soon. Market sources expect the next few companies listed will also be government-owned entities, which would have no problem meeting the listing conditions. Approval for a listing of Trans-Island Bus Service Pte Ltd is expected soon, they said. SNP, previously wholly-owned by the government's Temasek Holdings (Pte) Ltd, issued seven mln 50-cent shares at one dlr each last month in a public offering oversubscribed 119 times. In SESDAQ trading, SNP shares have advanced from an initial 1.87 dlrs to a Friday close of 2.32 after a 2.80 high. So far more than 900,000 shares have traded. REUTER 
SINO-U.S. VENTURE IN CHINA TO MAKE RINSING AGENTS

<Ecolab Co> of the United States signed a contract with North China Industrial Co to set up the first Sino-U.S. Joint venture in China to make rinsing agents, the New China News Agency said. It said total investment in the new venture, <Ecolab Chemical Industrial Co>, is 2.4 mln dlrs. It said the venture will be based in Shanghai and produce agents for use in hotels and industries. It gave no further details. REUTER 
SHULTZ VISIT TO MOSCOW POSSIBLE, SAY SOVIETS

A senior Soviet official said a visit to Moscow by U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz for arms discussions was under consideration. Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Bessmertnykh told a news conference such a visit would be part of continuing contacts between the two powers "in the framework of security questions." Earlier, U.S. Officials with Shultz in Peking said he was likely to go to Moscow soon following Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev's weekend proposal for a separate agreement on withdrawing Soviet and American medium-range missiles from Europe. 
ARGENTINE DEBT NEGOTIATOR CONFIDENT OF ACCORD

Argentina's chief debt negotiator said he was confident of a prompt accord with international creditor banks for rescheduling the country's foreign debt. "I'm quite optimistic about carrying out a serious and quick negotiation," Treasury Secretary Mario Brodersohn said on return from talks in New York with leading U.S. and world financial officials. Argentina is currently negotiating terms with the steering committee for its creditor banks that will allow it to meet four pct economic growth targets in 1987. It has also asked for a reduction in interest rates and fresh credit. Brodersohn said the growth targets were not negotiable, but Argentina did not want to follow Brazil in suspending payments on its foreign debt. He said Argentina was seeking 2.15 billion dlrs credit to meet the targets, adding that the banks' attitude had improved following Brazil's decision. The United States and a group of other industrial nations on Thursday granted Argentina a 500 mln dlr bridge loan. Brodersohn held talks in New York with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, Federal Reserve chief Paul Volcker and International Monetary Fund (IMF) head Michel Camdessus. Reuter 
TAIWAN PLANS NEW TARIFF CUTS

Taiwan plans another round of deep tariff cuts this year to help narrow its trade surplus with the U.S., A senior economic planner said. Wang Chao-Ming, vice-chairman of the council for economic planning and development, told Reuters Taiwan would further reduce import tariffs on 1,700 products sometime in the second half of this year. Cuts of up to 50 pct on those items were made last year and Wang said further cuts would go much deeper. "We have to speed up liberalisation and cut import tariffs faster and more substantially," he said. The United States, Taiwan's main trading partner, has said the island's import tariffs, still ranging from a high of almost 60 pct, were unacceptable. It has criticised the cuts as too selective. Taiwan's trade surplus with the United States hit 13.6 billion dlrs last year. The surplus has boosted foreign exchange reserves to 50 billion dlrs, which Wang said made Taiwan a target for U.S. Protectionism. Wang said the trade surplus and the reserves weakened Taiwan's position in talks with Washington over export quotas, particularly for shoes, textiles and machine tools which are among the island's main export-earners. A special Taiwanese trade delegation leaves for Washington tomorrow to try to renegotiate an agreement signed last year limiting exports of Taiwan textiles. Under the accord, Taiwan's textile export growth was limited to 0.5 pct each year until 1988. Taipei has said it is losing markets to South Korea and Hong Kong which were given more generous terms. REUTER... 
FUNARO SAYS BRAZIL NEEDS MORE, FASTER FINANCE

Brazil would not have suspended payments on debt owed to foreign banks if it had received more and faster financing from official lending agencies, Finance Minister Dilson Funaro said. He said he would not seek more money from the International Monetary Fund to which Brazil paid 922 mln dlrs last year and said Brazil's problems could not be solved by IMF intervention. "It's a question of why the official lending agencies don't finance a little bit more quickly and easily," Funaro told reporters at the Brazilian Embassy. Asked if Brazil would have continued making payments of monthly interest to its foreign commercial bank lenders if official lending agencies had provided more funds, he replied, "Yes, because our country did not receive financing from these agencies." Asked how long the payment suspension would last, Funaro said "It all depends on what kind of financing we are going to receive from the other side." Brazil, with foreign debt totaling 108 billion dlrs, stunned the banking community last week by suspending payments on some 68 billion dlrs owed to private banks. Funaro said Brazil had paid 44 billion dollars to the World Bank and other lending agencies and commercial banks in the past four years and got only 11 billion dlrs in loans. He said the net transfer was hurting the country's continued growth and capacity to import goods. "Something is wrong with the system. Some mechanism has to be found to finance a country like Brazil," Funaro said. He did not specify what steps he had in mind but said he would like to see "automatic" official lending when needed so that Brazil would not have to dip into its dwindling reserves, now reported to be below four billion dlrs. Funaro said Brazil had the world's third-largest trade surplus and estimated the 1987 surplus would be at least eight billion dlrs. But he said that without increased and faster lending from official institutions, the nation could not rely on its export earnings to finance development and imports and also service its debt. "We must find an equilibrium between foreign adjustment and internal adjustment," Funaro said. He complained that official lending agencies had imposed tight control on credit over the past four years, leaving commercial bank refinancing as the only credit available. Funaro said U.S officials understand his position "but they don't like it." Later he left Washington for a tour of Europe and debt discussions with officials in Britain, West Germany, France, Switzerland and Italy. Brazil's central cank President Francisco Gros said he sent a telex to creditor banks Friday to clarify confusion over Brazil's request that banks expedite procedures for renewal of short-term interbank credit and trade credit lines. Reuter 
PHILADELPHIA PORT CLOSED BY TANKER CRASH

The port of Philadelphia was closed when a Cypriot oil tanker, Seapride II, ran aground after hitting a 200-foot tower supporting power lines across the river, a Coast Guard spokesman said. He said there was no oil spill but the ship is lodged on rocks opposite the Hope Creek nuclear power plant in New Jersey. He said the port would be closed until today when they hoped to refloat the ship on the high tide. After delivering oil to a refinery in Paulsboro, New Jersey, the ship apparently lost its steering and hit the power transmission line carrying power from the nuclear plant to the state of Delaware. Reuter 
REAGAN AND BAKER BEGIN TASK OF REBUILDING

After a week that left his presidency shaken and his popularity at a new low, Ronald Reagan and his new chief of staff today begin trying to revive an administration tattered by the Iran-contra arms scandal. Reagan and former Senate Republican leader Howard Baker, whose appointment as White House chief of staff won bipartisan praise, will begin mapping strategy to deal with scathing criticism by a report on his failed bid to trade U.S. arms with Iran for help in freeing Ameican hostages in Lebanon. Among the chores facing Reagan's new inner circle is assessing the damage the 300-page Tower commission report has done to the nomination of Robert Gates to succeed William Casey as the new head of the Central Intelligence Agency. White House officials are checking to see how much support Gates, a 43-year old career spy agency bureaucrat, would have if his nomination is submitted to the full Senate for a vote, Senate Republican leader Robert Dole said. Appearing on the NBC News program, "Meet the Press," the Kansas senator said the Gates nomination "could be in some difficulty." Aides said that Gates' future would be given high priority by Baker. Even though he was not deeply implicated in the arms sale scandal, lawmakers said Senate confirmation of the Gates nomination is not assured and, even if won, would come only after months of congressional probes into the affair. "He has the smell of Iran on him," said former Nevada Sen. and Reagan confidant Paul Laxalt. "He is a victim." Laxalt, appearing on the ABC News program, "This Week With David Brinkley," bluntly admitted "the Gates nomination is in trouble." Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn said the odds are now slightly against confirmation of Gates. When asked on the syndicated television program, "John McLaughlin: One on One," if he thought Gates would be confirmed, the Georgia Democrat shot back: "I wouldn't bet any money on it. "I think this report hurts that," Nunn said. "It indicates that the National Security Council had policy-type influence over intelligence-type activities and we're going to go into that with Mr. Gates. Only a day after it was issued last week, the Tower report prompted the abrupt exit of Donald Regan as White House chief of staff. Regan, the former Wall Street executive and Treasury secretary who has been the president's top aide for the past two years, was assigned the lion's share of the blame for the botched handling of the Iran arms sale. The report blamed Regan for the "chaos that descended on the White House" since it was first revealed last November that profits from the Iran arms sales had been diverted to contra rebels fighting the leftist Nicaraguan government. The two other victims of the scandal are former National Security Adviser Vice Adm. John Poindexter who resigned and Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North who was fired after it was disclosed last November 23 that profits from the Iran arms sale were diverted to the contras. The two, pictured by the Tower commission as the key operators of the Iran arms deal, have refused to testify. Reagan, who freely admits disliking details, is portrayed in the Tower report as a befuddled chief executive whose inattention let his aides run away with his foreign policy. That perception has wrecked Reagan's popularity and threatened to condemn him to lame duck status until he leaves office in January 1989. A recent Newsweek magazine poll found that just 40 pct of Americans approved of Reagan's leadership, a record low, and a third believed he should consider resignation. After meeting with aides over the weekend and poring over the meaty report of the commission headed by former Texas Sen. John Tower, Reagan is now preparing for a nationwide television address this week to respond to the criticisms of his presidency. Reuter 



TAIWAN TO SEEK HIGHER TEXTILE EXPORTS TO U.S.

A Taiwan mission will leave next week for Washington to renegotiate an agreement severely limiting the growth of the island's textile exports, a Board of Foreign Trade official said. Under the agreement signed last July, Taiwan's textile export growth was limited to 0.5 pct each year until 1988, based on the value of 1985 exports. The official said the pact was unfair because the United States had signed more favourable agreements with Hong Kong and South Korea. They were each given about one pct growth until 1991. He said Taiwan now found it difficult to compete with its two main rivals and the problem had been made worse because of the surging value of the Taiwan dollar. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves, economists said. They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly by arranging a fairly large round, two billion dlrs or more, of customer repurchase agreements. The Fed may add the reserves directly instead via System repurchases. Federal funds, which averaged 6.02 pct on Friday, opened at 6-1/8 pct and traded between there and 6-1/16 pct. Funds are under upward pressure from settlement of recently sold two-year notes and from a Treasury tax and loan call on banks. Reuter 
AMAX <AMX> IN GOLD, SILVER FIND

AMAX Incx said it has identified additional gold and silver ore reserves at its AMAX Sleeper Mine near Winnemucca, Nev.. It said as a result of recent drilling, reserves at thhe mine are now estimated at 2,470,000 short tons of ore grading 0.24 ounce of gold and 0.50 ounce of silver per ton that is treatable by conventional milling techniques. AMAX said additional reserves amenable to heap leaching are estimated at 38.3 mln tons averaging 0.025 ounce gold and 0.24 ounce silver per ton. Further drilling is being conducted, it said. Reuter 
STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES

A study group said the United States should increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil industry. U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. The Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for oil exploration and development techniques. It predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption. It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more exploration and development research would help to guard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter 
TRADERS DETAIL FRENCH CEREAL EXPORT REQUESTS

French operators last Friday requested licences to export 10,500 tonnes of free market maize, 11,950 tonnes of free market barley and 13,000 of soft wheat flour to non-EC countries, at prefixed daily (droit commun) rebates, French trade sources said. The latest requests for the maize were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein at a maximum daily rebate prefixed last Friday at 141 Ecus a tonne against a previous 20 Ecu daily rebate. The special daily rebate for maize was set in the context of a Commission commitment to grant this season rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize to non-EC countries, in compensation for concessions to the U.S. in the recent dispute over grain sales to Spain. If the latest French requests are accepted as expected, this will bring the total of French maize exported in this context to 25,500 tonnes. The Commission last Thursday granted weekly rebates for the sale of 15,000 tonnes of free market maize to non-EC countries. Requests for barley were for export to Switzerland, Austria and Lichtenstein, Ceuta and Melilla at an unchanged pre-fixed restitution of 125 Ecus a tonne, while requests for soft wheat flour were for export to various non-EC countries at an unchanged 178 Ecus a tonne. Reuter 
STUDY GROUP URGES INCREASED U.S. OIL RESERVES

A study group said the United States should increase its strategic petroleum reserve to one mln barrels as one way to deal with the present and future impact of low oil prices on the domestic oil industry. U.S. policy now is to raise the strategic reserve to 750 mln barrels, from its present 500 mln, to help protect the economy from an overseas embargo or a sharp price rise. The Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, a private group, also called for new research for oil exploration and development techniques. It predicted prices would remain at about 15-18 dlrs a barrel for several years and then rise to the mid 20s, with imports at about 30 pct of U.S. consumption. The study cited two basic policy paths for the nation: to protect the U.S. industry through an import fee or other such device or to accept the full economic benefits of cheap oil. But the group did not strongly back either option, saying there were benefits and drawbacks to both. It said instead that such moves as increasing oil reserves and more exploration and development research would help to guard against or mitigate the risks of increased imports. Reuter 
CANADA RULING ON U.S. CORN INJURY DUE THIS WEEK

The Canadian government is expected to announce later this week its final ruling whether U.S. corn exports to Canada have injured Ontario corn growers, U.S. government and farm group representatives said. The deadline for a final determination is March 7. U.S. officials said they are encouraged by the outcome in a similar case covering European pasta imports. In that case, Canada decided pasta imports, which take about ten pct of the Canadian market, did not injure domestic producers. U.S. corn exports represent only about five pct of the Canadian market. Canada slapped a 1.05 dlrs per bushel duty on U.S. corn imports in November 1986, but reduced the duty to 85 cts last month because the Canadian government said U.S. subsidies to corn producers were less than Canada earlier estimated. Reuter 
AIRGAS <AGA> DECLINES TO COMMENT ON STOCK MOVES

The New York Stock Exchange said Airgas Inc declined to comment on its stock activity after a request for an explanation by the exchange. The company's stock was up 1-1/8 points to 11 dlrs. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
CME PLANS RULE CHANGES TIGHTENING S/P TRADING

Directors of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange will meet Wednesday to consider a membership petition asking the exchange to tighten rules covering trading activities in the widely-popular Standard and Poor's 500 Stock Index futures pit, an exchange executive said. The petition calls for elimination of dual trading, a legal practice where traders execute customer orders as well as trade for their own account. But exchange officials noted this practice also provides an opportunity for a trader to engage in what is called "front-running", where traders enter orders for their own account before executing orders for their customers. Leo Melamed, CME special counsel, said directors will rule on the petition on Wednesday, but added that a special S and P Advisory Committee has been studying S and P 500 futures trading conditions for the last six months and is expected to submit a complete list of recommendations within 30 days. In addition to a recommendation on dual trading, Melamed said the special committee will also make suggestions about a possible automatic order entry and execution system for S and P 500 futures and futures-options and rule changes that would alleviate congested conditions in the trading pit. Melamed said directors are likely to approve the recommendations of the special committee because "most actions of the board are in line with committee recommendations." CME senior vice president Gerald Beyer said if the board accepts the member's petition this week, a rule change will be submitted to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for approval. If the board does nothing, or rejects the petition request, a rule change must then be submitted to the exchange membership for a vote within 15 days, Beyer said. Melamed also added that if the petition must be ruled on before the recommendations from the special committee are made "it will confuse the issue." Not all traders agree on the need to eliminiate or restrict dual trading. Although Jonathan Wolff, senior vice president at Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette, noted dual trading is evident on most exchanges. "It's a question of the integrity of the person you do business with," Wolff said. Futures traders who act as brokers, however, maintain that trading for their own accounts is necessary in order to make up for errors they inevitably make when filling customer orders in chaotic futures trading pits. "To have an absolute ban on dual trading makes it difficult for a broker to function because of his errors," said John Michael, vice president at First Options of Chicago. "What it comes down to is the ethics of the people involved," he said. Furthermore, the competitive nature of futures brokerage makes front-running risky to a broker's livelihood, he said. "If I ever discovered a broker doing it (front-running), or even suspected him of doing it, I would cut him off," Michael said. An average broker in the Treasury bond futures pit, for instance, will fill orders for 5,000 to 10,000 contracts a day at 1.25 dlrs per contract, floor sources said. Even figuring what is considered a typical 25 pct loss for errors such brokerage can be lucrative. Front-running by brokers not only runs the market risk of an adverse price move, but also the risk of losing the brokerage business, Michael said. Reuter 
UNOCAL <UCL> UNIT CUTS CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES

Unocal Corp's Union Oil Co said it lowered its posted prices for crude oil one to 1.50 dlrs a barrel in the eastern region of the U.S., effective Feb 26. Union said a 1.50 dlrs cut brings its posted price for the U.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 16 dlrs. Louisiana Sweet also was lowered 1.50 dlrs to 16.35 dlrs, the company said. No changes were made in Union's posted prices for West Coast grades of crude oil, the company said. Reuter 
PANHANDLE'S <PEL> TRUNKLINE REDUCES GAS RATES

Panhandle Eastern Corp's Trunkline Gas Co pipeline subsidiary said it is reducing the commodity component of its wholesale natural gas rate four pct, effective immediately. In a filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Trunkline said, it is reducing its commodity rate -- the portion of the total rate based on the price of gas -- to 2.58 dlrs per mln Btu from 2.69 dlrs per mln Btu. The company said the lower rate results from a reduction in the average price the pipeline is paying for gas, adding this reflects contract reformation agreemats with producers. Reuter 
INTEGRATED GENERICS <IGN> WILL NOT COMMENT

Integrated Generics Inc said it is in the midst of several developments which could be favorable for the company but can make no further comments at the present time. The company said it released this brief statement in response to the American Stock Exchange's inquiry on the activity of the company's common stock, which was up 5/8 to five in midafternoon trading. Reuter 
GOODRICH <GR> TO PHASE OUT SOME BUSINESSES

B.F. Goodrich Co said it will phase out the production of aircraft tires, missile and marine products and molded rubber products in Akron, Ohio, by the end of 1987, laying off about 790 salaried, production, maintenance and support services employees. The company said layoffs will start within the next few weeks. Goodrich said it will continue to make chemicals and adhesives in Akron, employing about 356. Another 5000 salaried employees in Akron work for Goodrich. The company said it has not been able to operate the businesses being discontinued in Akron profitably enough to justify the large investment that it has in them. Goodrich said it will continue to make aircraft tires at Norwood, N.C., and sonar domes at Jacksonville, Fla., and will relocate its molded rubber products business to a site not yet chosen. It said it will stop making insulators for missiles. Goodrich said it is prepared to discuss with officials of the United Rubber Workers Union severance benefits for affected employees and issues related to the continued operation in Akron of the chemical and adhesives businesses and to the phaseout of the Akron aircraft tire, missile and marine and molded rubber products manufacturing. A company spokesman said it does not expect any adverse impact on earnings from the move. Reuter 
(RPT) U.S. SAYS TIN DISPOSALS WILL NOT AFFECT ACCORD

U.S. tin disposals should have little effect on an agreement reached last weekend by tin producing countries to limit group exports to 96,000 tonnes in the year started March 1, a government official said. The agreement by the seven-member Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) aimed to cut the world surplus and boost prices. Following the accord, ATPC Chairman Subroto appealed to the United States to restrict its tin releases from its strategic stockpile. "We don't think that (the U.S. government) has a large influence in the (tin) market at this stage of the game," said Thomas O'Donnell, Director of International Commodities at the State Department. Last year the United States released about 4,900 tonnes of tin to two ferroalloy firms. Reuter 
NYMEX WILL EXPAND OFF-HOUR TRADING APRIL ONE

The New York Mercantile Exchange set April one for the debut of a new procedure in the energy complex that will increase the use of energy futures worldwide. On April one, NYMEX will allow oil traders that do not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market, according to an exchange spokeswoman. "This will change the way oil is transacted in the real world," said said Thomas McKiernan, McKiernan and Co chairman. Foreign traders will be able to hedge trades against NYMEX prices before the exchange opens and negotiate prices at a differential to NYMEX prices, McKiernan explained. The expanded program "will serve the industry because the oil market does not close when NYMEX does," said Frank Capozza, secretary of Century Resources Inc. The rule change, which has already taken effect for platinum futures on NYMEX, is expected to increase the open interest and liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according to traders and analysts. Currently, at least one trader in this transaction, called an exchange for physical or EFP, must hold a futures position before entering into the transaction. Under the new arrangement, neither party has to hold a futures position before entering into an EFP and one or both parties can offset their cash transaction with a futures contract the next day, according to exchange officials. When NYMEX announced its proposed rule change in December, NYMEX President Rosemary McFadden, said, "Expansion of the EFP provision will add to globalization of the energy markets by providing for, in effect, 24-hour trading." The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved the rule change in February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman. Reuter 
CCR VIDEO <CCCR> NOW MEETS NASDAQ REQUIREMENTS

CCR Video Corp said it is now current in its filing requirements with both the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, and meets the trading system's net worth requirements. The company reported a first quarter, ended November 30, profit of 156,726 dlrs compared to a year earlier loss of 776,000 dlrs. CCR also said its previously reported refinanceing in December resulted in an extraordinary gain of 456,004 dlrs, leaving the company with a net worth of 633,581 dlrs at the end of December. At the end of November, a spokesman noted, CCR did not meet NASDAQ's requirement of a net worth of 100,000 dlrs and has been trading on an exception to those rules. Reuter 
HUGHES' U.S. RIG COUNT SLIPS TO 801 THIS WEEK

U.S. drilling activity continued to slow last week as the number of active rotary rigs fell by 38 to a total of 801, against 1,248 working rigs one year ago, Hughes Tool Co said. Most of the decrease came among rigs used for onshore drilling, which dropped to a total of 707 from last week's 744. A total of 77 rigs were active offshore and 17 in inland waters during the week, Hughes Tool said. Among individual states, Texas lost 24 working rigs, Michigan dropped by six, and California, New mexico and Kansas were each down by one. Colorado reported a gain of eight rigs and Louisiana was up by four. In Canada, the rig count was up 14 to 164, against 422 one year ago. Reuter 
TALKS SHOW NEW CANADIAN CONFIDENCE, GROUP SAYS

Canada's decision to raise the issue of a free trade pact with the U.S. was a sign of what many see as a new spirit of Canadian self-confidence, a public policy study group said "It suggests the Canada of the immediate post-war period, when it was a major player in the process of building a postwar world," the Washington-based Atlantic Council said. U.S. and Canadian negotiators opened talks last summer aimed at dismantling trade barriers between the two countries, the world's biggest trading partners with crossborder shipments of about 150 billion dlrs annually. The council's study said the trade talks, with a deadline of October for an agreement, are the biggest issue in U.S.-Canadian relations. The study said liberalized trade between the two countries would improve the competitiveness of their economies in world markets and lessen trade irritants which now mar their ties. The council said "in the past most Canadians have shied away from the notion of a free-trade arrangement, fearing to be overwhelmed economically and politically by a closer association with a country 10 times their size in population." But at the same time, it added, Canadians realized their domestic market was too small to permit the mass production and sales needed to raise productivity to the level demanded by an increasingly competitive world. The council said that in the talks, Canada is chiefly interested in minimizing the imposing of U.S. duties against allegedly subsidized exports. A recent example was the 15 per cent duty the U.S. imposed on Canadian lumber exports on grounds the shipments were being subsidized. The council said the chief U.S. concerns included ending curbs against U.S. banking, insurance, telecommunications, and the so-called "cultural industries" - publishing, broadcasting and films. It said other major U.S.-Canadian issues were defense cooperation, "acid rain" and the U.S. rejection of a Canadian assertion of sovereignty over waters of the Northwest Passage. Reuter 
CHEMICAL NEW YORK <CHL> TO CLOSE DUBAI OFFICE

Chemical Bank, the main subsidiary of Chemical New York Corp, is closing its representative office in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, a spokeswoman said in response to an enquiry. She said the decision to close the office was made as a result of changes in Chemical's regional customer base and to improve efficiency by centralizing the bank's Gulf activities in Bahrain. The Bahrain office will assume the local contact role for all of Chemical's corporate and institutional customers now served by the Dubai office, the spokeswoman added. Reuter 
U.S. WHEAT GROUPS CALL FOR GLOBAL ACTION

All major grain producing countries must do their part to help reduce global surpluses and the recent Australian farm policy proposals are flawed, two U.S. wheat organizations said. The recent Australian proposals were a good starting point for discussions, "but we do not want the Australians to feel they are alone in developing an agenda for discussions" on world grain trade, the president of the National Association of Wheat Growers, NAWG, and the chairman of U.S. Wheat Associates said in a letter to U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter. Future discussions on international wheat trade should include three topics -- a commitment to privatization of government-run export trading entities, a commitment to public disclosure of sales and other terms if government entities are involved, and a recognition that supply reductions by the U.S. have kept world prices higher than they otherwise would be, the two organizations said While the Australian proposals are welcome the two organizations said they are not in total agreement with their assessments. Australia's proposals, which aim to reduce U.S. target prices and "quarantine" U.S. wheat stocks, would continue to place the burden of supply adjustment and reform on U.S. farmers, they said. Other countries, including Australia, have benefitted from the higher world prices that have resulted from past U.S. acreage and crop reduction programs, the organizations said. "We will not continue to hurt ourselves economically -- and subsidize foreign wheat production -- by unilaterally stocking grain and changing programs which protect our growers," Jim Miller, president of NAWG said. "We sincerely hope for some type of agreement among the world's major grain producing nations to reduce stocks and restore profitability to agriculture," Miller said. Reuter 
STAR TECHNOLOGIES TO TRADE ON NASDAQ

Star Technologies Inc said its shares will begin trading on the Nasdaq national market system tomorrow. The company, a manufacturer of very high-speed computers for scientific applications, has annual revenues of about 40 mln dlrs. In the nine months ended Dec 31, the company earned 1.9 mln dlrs against a loss of 16.5 mln dlrs in the year-ago period, as sales rose to 32.6 mln dlrs from 9.3 mln dlrs. Reuter 
ANCHOR GLASS <AGLS> CLEARED FOR LISTED ON NYSE

Anchor Glass Container Corp said it has been cleared to apply for listing on the New York Stock Exchange and expects to file its formal application for listing later this month, with trading to begin during the week of April 20. The company said the NYSE advised it management that the company meets the criteria for listing following successful completion of a preliminary eligibility review. Anchor also said its stock is being split two-for-one effective March 24 to holders of record March three. After the split, it said it will have 13.3 mln shares outstanding. Reuter 
NYMEX RULE CHANGE SEEN BOOSTING ENERGY TRADE

The New York Mercantile Exchange said it will introduce exchanges for physicals (EFPS) to its energy futures markets April one. An exchange spokeswoman said the change will allow oil traders that do not hold a futures position to initiate, after the exchange closes, a transaction that can subsequently be hedged in the futures market. EFPs, already in effect for platinum futures on NYMEX, are expected to increase the open interest and liquidity in U.S. energy futures, according to traders and analysts. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved the rule change in February, according to a CFTC spokeswoman. Reuter 
U.S. REFINERY COPPER STOCKS FALL IN JANUARY

Refined copper stocks held by U.S. refineries fell to 109,200 short tons at the end of January from 145,400 short tons at the end of December, the American Bureau of Metal Statistics reported. Commodity Exchange (Comex) copper stocks climbed to 103,000 tons in January from 93,300 tons in December. Combined refinery and Comex stocks eased to 212,200 tons in January from 238,700 tons in December. U.S. refined production declined to 117,600 tons in January from 137,400 tons in December. Crude output increased to 98,600 tons in January from 93,300 tons (revised lower) in December. Preliminary figures showed U.S. refined deliveries rose to 151,800 tons in January from 124,800 tons in December. Reuter 
AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS KICKS OFF TOMORROW

The American Pork Congress kicks off tomorrow, March 3, in Indianapolis with 160 of the nations pork producers from 44 member states determining industry positions on a number of issues, according to the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC. Delegates to the three day Congress will be considering 26 resolutions concerning various issues, including the future direction of farm policy and the tax law as it applies to the agriculture sector. The delegates will also debate whether to endorse concepts of a national PRV (pseudorabies virus) control and eradication program, the NPPC said. A large trade show, in conjunction with the congress, will feature the latest in technology in all areas of the industry, the NPPC added. Reuter 
REAGAN TO ADDRESS NATION WEDNESDAY NIGHT

White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker said President Reagan will address the nation in a nationally televised speech Wednesday night at 2100 EST on the Tower Commission Report on the arms to Iran scandal. Baker, in his first news conference as chief of staff, also said that Robert Gates asked that his name be withdrawn from nomination as director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Gates said in a letter to the president that it became apparent it would be a long and difficult process to win Senate confirmation of the nomination. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS REAGAN TO MEET PRESS "VERY SOON"

White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker said President Reagan will meet the press "very soon." Baker told a brief news conference "I expect you'll see the president very soon" when asked by reporters when Reagan expected to resume his news conferences. Reagan has not met the press since November 19. Baker said Reagan had intended to conduct today's news conference and only the lack of a firm announcement of a replacement for Robert Gates as CIA director prevented him. Reagan will address the nation wednesday night in response to the Tower Commission's report on the Iran arms scandal. reuter 
TONKA <TKA> EXPANDS AUSTRALIAN OPERATIONS

Tonka Corp said it agreed to become the exclusive distributor of Tokyo-based Bandai Co Ltd toy lines in Australia and New Zealand and also agreed to buy the business of Bandai Australia. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed. The Bandai agreement and other actions are expected to add 15 mln dlrs to Tonka's international sales in 1987. International sales accounted for 11 pct of Tonka's 293.4 mln dlrs of revenues in 1986. Reuter 
U.S. BRASS MILL COPPER STOCKS LOWER IN JANUARY

U.S. brass mill copper stocks fell to 185,400 short tons (copper content) at the end of January from 191,200 short tons at the end of December, according to the American Bureau of Metal Statistics. Consumption by brass mills increased to 60,700 short tons in January from 48,900 short tons in December. Mills consumed 29,600 tons of refinery shapes in January versus 24,000 tons in December. Scrap consumption increased to 31,100 tons in January from 24,900 tons in December. Total brass mill shipments increased to 69,600 tons in January from 54,400 tons in December, while receipts rose to 63,800 tons from 47,100 tons. Reuter 
U.S. SIGNS TAX TREATY WITH VIRGIN ISLANDS

The Treasury Department said the United States and the Virgin Islands have signed a tax treaty to exchange tax information and provide mutual assistance in tax matters. The agreement was needed to trigger provisions of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 allowing the Virgin Islands to offer investment incentives by reducing Virgin Islands taxes on non-U.S. source income, the Treasury said. The treaty will be a model for similar agreements to be negotiated with three other U.S. possessions -- American Samoa, the Mariana Islands and Guam, the Treasury said. The new agreement, which expands and replaces a prior agreement with the Virgin Islands, was signed on February 24, the Treasury said. Reuter 
CME SETS FEBRUARY TRADING VOLUME RECORD

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) posted record trading volume for the month of February when 6,556,464 futures and options contracts changed hands, up 15.2 pct from last February's volume of 5,693,243 contracts. Interest rate futures trading was the most active segment at the exchange, with Eurodollar futures setting a monthly record of 1,472,184 contracts, up 78.4 pct, from volume of 825,087 contracts in February last year and surpassing the previous record of 1,288,729 contracts set in September, 1986. Options on Eurodollar futures also set a monthly record of 235,916 contracts, up 92.4 pct from 122,616 a year ago. Trading in currency futures and options at the CME fell 4.6 pct during February from a year ago, with 2,012,148 contracts changing hands compared to 2,119,198 contracts in the same period last year. Volume in most currency futures contracts fell in February, while options on the currency futures rose 28.2 pct. Options on mark futures set a monthly record at 273,749 contracts, up from the previous record of 268,831 contracts in January. Agricultural futures volume rose 17.1 pct during the month, with live hog futures volume leading the market segment, rising 27.7 pct to 138,543 contracts. Reuter 
NYMEX TO SUBMIT PROPANE PROPOSAL TO CFTC

The New York Mercantile Exchange expects to submit a propane futures contract for federal regulatory approval within a few days, according to an exchange spokeswoman. As previously announced, the Board of Governors of the exchange approved the contract last month. The exchange will now submit the contract to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, according to the spokeswoman. Contract specifications will resemble those of heating oil and gasoline futures. The contract size will be 1,000 barrels, or 42,000 U.S. gallons. The minimum price fluctuation for the propane futures contract will be 0.01 cent per gallon, or 4.20 dlrs a barrel, according to the exchange. The maximum daily price limit will be two cts a gallon on all contracts except spot. Trading will terminate on the last business day of the month preceding the delivery month. The exchange said delivery will be F.O.B from the seller's pipeline, storage, or fractionation facility in Mont Belvieu, Texas, which has a direct pipeline access to the Texas Eastern Transmission Pipeline (TET) in Mont Beliview. Delivery method will be by in-line or in-well transfer, inter-facility transfer or pumpover, or book transfer and cannot be done earlier than the tenth calendar day of the delivery month, according to the exchange. Deliveries must be completed no later than two business days prior to the end of the delivery month. Buyers taking delivery of the propane must pay the seller by certified check and the deadline for payment is 1200 EST (noon) of the second business day following receipt of the propane. Reuter 
YEUTTER BLASTS PROPOSED EC OILS AND FATS TAX

U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter today said that if the European Community's Council of Ministers approves a tax on vegetable oils and fats, another major transatlantic trade row will erupt over agriculture. In a statement issued by the trade representative's office following a speech to the American Soybean Association's board of directors, Yeutter said the proposed tax would have a severe impact on American soybean farmers, who export some 2.4 billion dlrs in soybeans and products annually to the EC. "This is an unacceptable situation for us and its (vegetable oils tax) enactment would leave us no choice but to vigorously protect our trade rights and defend our access to the European market," Yeutter said. Yeutter said the proposed vegetable oils tax would violate EC obligations under the GATT. He said the effect of the tax would be to double the price of soyoil produced from imported soybeans, making margarine made from soyoil more expensive than tallow-based margarine, and closer in price to expensive European butter. "I am astonished that the EC commission would propose such a provocative measure so soon after we successfully resolved the agricultural dispute over the enlargement of the EC to include Spain and Portugal," Yeutter said. "It serves no purpose to embark on another confrontational course before the recent wounds have healed and as we are beginning to make progress on the Uruaguay round (of global trade talks)," he said. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> CUTS HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE

Oil traders in New York said Exxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. unit reduced the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor 0.75 cent a gallon, effective today. They said the reduction brings Exxon's contract barge price to 43.25 cts. The price decrease follows sharp declines in heating oil prices on spot and futures markets, traders said. Reuter 
REGAN DEPARTURE MAKES 3RD VOLCKER TERM LIKELY

Last week's White House shake-up has increased the odds that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker, a symbol of strength in a government reeling from the arms-to-Iran scandal, will serve a third term, sources close to the Fed say. But they said that no decision on the appointment, which must be filled this August, has been taken by the White House and Volcker too has not made up his mind. Former White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan, who resigned last week when ex-senator Howard Baker was named as his replacement, was implacably opposed to Volcker and tried often to undermine him. It is an open secret in Washington that Regan tried to ensure that Volcker, first appointed in 1979 by President Carter, will not be offered a third term by President Reagan. Only Volcker's key allies in the Reagan administration, Vice-President George Bush and Treasury Secretary James Baker, kept Regan's recent maneuvering at bay, the sources said. Sources close to the administration say Regan leaked a story, quickly shot down by others in the administration, that Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the council of economic advisers, had been chosen to replace Volcker. But as the administration's credibility was increasingly under fire, it became clear that Regan's power to bring about such changes was on the wane. The sources said New White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker has a very good relationship with his namesake at the Treasury Department and is likely to respect his views on the Fed chairmanship. As a moderate Republican, Baker is also unlikely to share the right-wing's opposition to Volcker. "This new White House is going to need all the strength it can get," said one source when asked about the possibility of Volcker's reappointment. Paul Volcker is deeply respected in financial markets both in the United States and around the world. At a time when the stability of the dollar and the viability of major debtor nations are in question, Volcker's departure would definitely undermine U.S. leadership, foreign exchange analysts say. U.S. officials say Volcker works very closely with Treasury Secretary Baker on issues like international debt and global economic cooperation. The two men seem only to differ on how far to deregulate the banking industry, but recent statements by Volcker, in which he adopted a more liberal attitude on deregulation, signalled the politically-independent central bank is coming around at least partially to the Treasury position. And a recent statement by a Reagan administration official that the two men saw "exactly eye-to-eye" on the dollar was seen as an indication of Baker's support for the Fed chairman. Baker is understood to have played a key role in Volcker's reappointment to the Fed in mid-1983. The sources said Baker respects Volcker and when appointed Treasury Secretary in February 1985, he decided to ensure a good working relationship, in part because he believed the two key government economic institutions have to work closely. Regan, Treasury Secretary during President Reagan's first term, was formerly head of Wall Street's largest brokerage firm Merrill Lynch and came to Washington determined to be America's pre-eminent economic spokesman. He developed a deep antipathy for Volcker, whose political skills undermined that ambition, and who financial markets took much more seriously. But the sources said Volcker would have to be invited to stay. "Is the president going to ask him? he wouldn't stay otherwise," said one. "He'd have to be asked," said Stephen Axilrod, formerly staff director of monetary policy at the Fed and now vice-chairman of Nikko Securities Co. International. Otherwise, the list of potential candidates is not awe-inspiring. And if Volcker left this Augsut, he would leave behind one of the most inexperienced Fed Boards in years. Many analysts believe this lack of collective experience -- the four sitting members were all appointed within the last three years -- is dangerous, coming at a time when the global economy is threatened by instability. An experienced successor, therefore, would seem a necessity. One widely mentioned possibility is Secretary of State George Shultz, whose experience as Treasury Secretary under Preesident Nixon and background as a trained economist would make him ideal. But Shultz too may have been damaged by the arms-to-Iran scandal, while vice-chairman Manuel Johnson is regarded at 37 years old as too young for the job. Other potential candidates include economist Alan Greenspan, frequently an informal presidential economic adviser, New York Fed President E. Gerald Corrigan, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp chairman William Seidman, and Sprinkel. Long a Regan protege, Sprinkel's chances may be damaged by his patron's departure from the White House. Reuter 
CBT FEBRUARY VOLUME DOWN 14 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

February volume at the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, declined 14 pct from the year-ago month to 8,191,266 contracts, the exchange said. A relatively steady interest rate climate reduced volume in the most active contract, Treasury bond futures, by 17.5 pct from a year ago to 4,307,645 contracts. However, trading in most agricultural futures contracts increased last month, led by oats and corn futures. Oats volume tripled to 27,662 contracts, and corn volume increased 35 pct to 580,204 contracts. Wheat and soybean oil futures activity also rose from a year ago, while soybean and soybean oil volume slipped, the exchange said. Major Market Index futures increased activity 37 pct during the month with 194,697 contracts changing hands. Reuter 
USSR WHEAT BONUS RUMORS PERSIST DESPITE DENIALS

Grain trade representatives continued to speculate that the Reagan administration will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union, while U.S. Agriculture Department officials said there was no substance to the reports. "It's pure fiction," said one senior official at USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service, referring to the rumor that the administration would make an export enhancement offer to Moscow in the next two to three weeks. An aide to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng who asked not to be identified said there was nothing to substantiate the speculation, which he said was started by "somebody fanning the (wheat) market." Wheat futures strengthened today, partly on the basis of the speculation. One lobbyist with close connections to the Reagan administration said a Soviet trade team told private grain trade officials in New York last week that Moscow would buy as much as four mln tonnes of U.S. wheat, much of it before mid-year, if it was "competitively priced." Alexander Ivlev, an official with Amtorg, a Soviet trading organization, told Reuters he had no information to substantiate the rumors of an imminent wheat subsidy offer, but said that Moscow "would consider" buying U.S. wheat if it was competitively priced. "We don't care if it is EEP, what we (the Soviets) are looking for is competitive prices," Ivlev said. "If they (the administration) are interested in selling it (wheat), they should find ways to do it." Reuter 
REAGAN'S CIA MAN WITHDRAWS, VICTIM OF IRAN SCANDAL

President Reagan's nominee as director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Robert Gates, withdrew his name from consideration by the Senate in the face of a long battle for confirmation. His withdrawal was announced at a White House news conference by Reagan's new Chief-of-Staff, Howard Baker, who said the President had accepted it with great regret. Gates, now deputy head of the CIA, had been questioned about CIA involvement in the Iran-contra scandal and leading senators had warned his nomination was in trouble. Baker said Gates would remain as deputy director of the spy agency. REUTER 
REAGAN APPROVAL RATING FALLS TO FOUR-YEAR LOW

President Reagan's approval rating fell after the Tower Commission criticised his handling of the Iran arms scandal, a New York Times/CBS poll indicates. The poll found 51 pct of those surveyed thought he was lying when he said he did not remember if he had approved the original arms sales to Iran and 35 pct thought he was telling the truth. The poll found 42 pct of those surveyed approved Reagan's handling of his job and 46 pct disapproved. The approval rating was the lowest since January 1983, when 41 pct approved of the way Reagan was doing his job. REUTER 
TAIWAN REJECTS TEXTILE MAKER PLEA ON EXCHANGE RATE

Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng rejected a request by textile makers to halt the rise of the Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Dollar to stop them losing orders to South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore, a spokesman for the Taiwan Textile Federation said. He quoted Chang as telling representatives of 19 textile associations last Saturday the government could not fix the Taiwan dollar exchange rate at 35 to one U.S. Dollar due to U.S. Pressure for an appreciation of the local currency. The Federation asked the government on February 19 to hold the exchange rate at that level. The federation said in its request that many local textile exporters were operating without profit and would go out of business if the rate continued to fall. It said the Taiwan dollar has risen almost 14 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985 while the South Korean won climbed only four pct. The Singapore and Hong Kong dollars remained stable against the U.S. Unit in that period, it said. Many local bankers and economists predict Taiwan's dollar will rise to between 32 and 33 per U.S. Dollar by year-end. Chang was quoted as saying this would depend on Taiwan's ability to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S. This year. The surplus widened to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1986 from 10.2 billion in 1985, official figures show. Taiwan's textile exports fell by almost four pct in January to 562 mln U.S. Dlrs from 583 mln in January 1986, the same figures show. Textiles are Taiwan's second-largest export earner, after electrical and electronic products. Textile exports surged to 7.8 billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 6.2 billion in 1985. Exports to the U.S. Last year were worth 2.8 billion U.S. Dlrs. REUTER 
CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S.

China called on the United States to remove curbs on its exports, to give it favourable trading status and ease restrictions on exports of high technology. But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures showing 13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15 are inaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuade Congress to change laws which limit its exports. The official International Business newspaper today published China's demands in a editorial to coincide with the visit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz. "It is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce its restrictions on Chinese imports, provide the needed facilities for them and businessmen from both sides help to expand Chinese exports," the editorial said. "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice against favourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit China into the Generalised System of Preference (GSP). "Despite easing of curbs on U.S. Technology exports in recent years, control of them is still extremely strict and influences normal trade between the two countries," it added The paper also printed an article by China's commercial counsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who said that "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventing bilateral trade fulfilling its full potential. He named them as U.S. Protectionist behaviour, curbs on technology transfer and out-of-date trade legislation. The paper also printed a table showing that, since bilateral trade began in 1972, China has had a deficit every year except 1972 and 1977. It shows the 1986 and 1985 deficits at 2.09 billion and 1.722 billion dlrs. A U.S. Embassy official said the U.S. Did not accept Peking's trade figures at all, mainly because they exclude goods shipped to Hong Kong and then trans-shipped to U.S. While U.S. Figures are based on country of origin. He said that, if China wants to obtain GSP status, it will have to lobby Congress itself to persaude it to amend several laws which currently prevent Peking getting such status. The U.S. Trade Act of 1974 says that to qualify for GSP, China must be a member of the General Agreement of Tariffs and Trade (GATT), for which it applied in July 1986, and "not be dominated or controlled by international Communism." The official said China was well aware of the laws, some of which date to the anti-Communist early 1950's, but that there is not sufficient political will in the U.S. To change them. China has been the subject of about a dozen cases involving anti-dumping in the U.S. Within the last two years, which the U.S. Side won, he said. But, for the first time, China signed last week an agreement which it itself initiated to voluntarily restrain exports of at least two categories of steel goods, which may lead the U.S. Side to withdraw the anti-dumping case, he added. Another diplomat said willingness to provide such voluntary export restraints would be an important issue in bilateral trade issues and in Peking's application to GATT. "China has the potential to disrupt world markets, especially in textiles. Other GATT countries will be nervous about China in this respect. But there is a precedent for other centralled planned economies in GATT," the diplomat said. Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Romania are members of GATT but none has China's massive market potential for imports or its vast labour pool to produce cheap exports. In a speech today in the northeast city of Dalian, U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz said his country welcomed China's interest in participating in GATT. "The process of Chinese accession will not be accomplished overnight -- the GATT rules were not designed for a large economy of the Chinese type," Shultz said. "China can play an important role by actively joining GATT discussions seeking to expand general trading opportunities and enhance market access for exports worldwide. China can further develop its foreign trade system so as to gain the maximum benefit from its GATT participation," he said. The problems facing U.S.-China trade and GATT membership are similar -- a pricing system which many foreign businessmen regard as arbitrary and not related to actual costs, especially for exports, and a de facto dual currency system. In a memorandum backing its application presented to GATT last month, China said it was gradually reforming its economic system and replacing mandatory instruction with "guidance planning" and economic levers. The diplomat said that, to join GATT, China had much to do. REUTER 
TAIWAN REJECTS TEXTILE MAKER PLEA ON EXCHANGE RATE

Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng rejected a request by textile makers to halt the rise of the Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Dollar to stop them losing orders to South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore, a spokesman for the Taiwan Textile Federation said. He quoted Chang as telling representatives of 19 textile associations last Saturday the government could not fix the Taiwan dollar exchange rate at 35 to one U.S. Dollar due to U.S. Pressure for an appreciation of the local currency. The Federation asked the government on February 19 to hold the exchange rate at that level. Reuter 
REAGAN APPROVAL RATING FALLS TO FOUR-YEAR LOW

President Reagan's approval rating fell after the Tower Commission criticised his handling of the Iran arms scandal, a New York Times/CBS poll indicates. The poll found 51 pct of those surveyed thought he was lying when he said he did not remember if he had approved the original arms sales to Iran and 35 pct thought he was telling the truth. The poll found 42 pct of those surveyed approved Reagan's handling of his job and 46 pct disapproved. The approval rating was the lowest since January 1983, when 41 pct approved of the way Reagan was doing his job. REUTER 
REGAN DEPARTURE MAKES 3RD VOLCKER TERM LIKELY

Last week's White House shake-up has increased the odds that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker, a symbol of strength in a government reeling from the arms-to-Iran scandal, will serve a third term, sources close to the Fed say. But they said that no decision on the appointment, which must be filled this August, has been taken by the White House and Volcker too has not made up his mind. Former White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan, who resigned last week when ex-senator Howard Baker was named as his replacement, was implacably opposed to Volcker and tried often to undermine him. It is an open secret in Washington that Regan tried to ensure that Volcker, first appointed in 1979 by President Carter, will not be offered a third term by President Reagan. Only Volcker's key allies in the Reagan administration, Vice-President George Bush and Treasury Secretary James Baker, kept Regan's recent maneuvering at bay, the sources said. Sources close to the administration say Regan leaked a story, quickly shot down by others in the administration, that Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the council of economic advisers, had been chosen to replace Volcker. But as the administration's credibility was increasingly under fire, it became clear that Regan's power to bring about such changes was on the wane. The sources said New White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker has a very good relationship with his namesake at the Treasury Department and is likely to respect his views on the Fed chairmanship. As a moderate Republican, Baker is also unlikely to share the right-wing's opposition to Volcker. "This new White House is going to need all the strength it can get," said one source when asked about the possibility of Volcker's reappointment. Paul Volcker is deeply respected in financial markets both in the United States and around the world. At a time when the stability of the dollar and the viability of major debtor nations are in question, Volcker's departure would definitely undermine U.S. leadership, foreign exchange analysts say. U.S. officials say Volcker works very closely with Treasury Secretary Baker on issues like international debt and global economic cooperation. The two men seem only to differ on how far to deregulate the banking industry, but recent statements by Volcker, in which he adopted a more liberal attitude on deregulation, signalled the politically-independent central bank is coming around at least partially to the Treasury position. And a recent statement by a Reagan administration official that the two men saw "exactly eye-to-eye" on the dollar was seen as an indication of Baker's support for the Fed chairman. Baker is understood to have played a key role in Volcker's reappointment to the Fed in mid-1983. The sources said Baker respects Volcker and when appointed Treasury Secretary in February 1985, he decided to ensure a good working relationship, in part because he believed the two key government economic institutions have to work closely. Regan, Treasury Secretary during President Reagan's first term, was formerly head of Wall Street's largest brokerage firm Merrill Lynch and came to Washington determined to be America's pre-eminent economic spokesman. He developed a deep antipathy for Volcker, whose political skills undermined that ambition, and who financial markets took much more seriously. But the sources said Volcker would have to be invited to stay. "Is the president going to ask him? he wouldn't stay otherwise," said one. "He'd have to be asked," said Stephen Axilrod, formerly staff director of monetary policy at the Fed and now vice-chairman of Nikko Securities Co. International. Otherwise, the list of potential candidates is not awe-inspiring. And if Volcker left this Augsut, he would leave behind one of the most inexperienced Fed Boards in years. Many analysts believe this lack of collective experience -- the four sitting members were all appointed within the last three years -- is dangerous, coming at a time when the global economy is threatened by instability. An experienced successor, therefore, would seem a necessity. One widely mentioned possibility is Secretary of State George Shultz, whose experience as Treasury Secretary under Preesident Nixon and background as a trained economist would make him ideal. But Shultz too may have been damaged by the arms-to-Iran scandal, while vice-chairman Manuel Johnson is regarded at 37 years old as too young for the job. Other potential candidates include economist Alan Greenspan, frequently an informal presidential economic adviser, New York Fed President E. Gerald Corrigan, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp chairman William Seidman, and Sprinkel. Long a Regan protege, Sprinkel's chances may be damaged by his patron's departure from the White House. Reuter 
U.S. LEADING INDICATORS FELL 1.0 PCT IN JAN AFTER REVISED 2.3 PCT DEC RISE



U.S. LEADING INDEX FELL 1.0 PCT IN JANUARY

The U.S. index of leading indicators fell a seasonally adjusted 1.0 pct in January after a revised 2.3 pct December gain, the Commerce Department said. The department previously said the index rose 2.1 pct in December. The decline in January was the biggest for any month since July, 1984, when the index fell 1.7 pct. The January decrease left the index at 183.8 over its 1967 base of 100, and was led by a fall in contracts and orders for plant and equipment. A total of six of 10 indicators available for January contributed to the decline. Besides contracts and orders for plant and equipment, they were building permits, manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods, a change in sensitive materials prices, slower deliveries from vendors and higher average weekly claims for state unemployment insurance. Four of 10 indicators were positive, including stock prices, new business formation, average work week and money supply. The main factor for the December upward revision was new business formation. There was no revision in the 0.9 pct increase in the leading indicators index for November. The index of coincident indicators, which measures the current economy, fell 0.1 pct in January after increases of 0.7 pct in December and 0.2 pct in November. The index of lagging indicators, which measures past economic activity, rose 0.5 pct in January after a decrease of 0.5 pct in December and an increase of 0.2 pct in November. Reuter 
SANDOZ PLANS WEEDKILLER JOINT VENTURE IN USSR

Sandoz AG said it planned a joint venture to produce herbicides in the Soviet Union. The company said it had signed a letter of intent with the Soviet Ministry of Fertiliser Production to form the first foreign joint venture the ministry had undertaken since the Soviet Union allowed Western firms to enter into joint ventures two months ago. The ministry and Sandoz will each have a 50 pct stake, but a company spokeswoman was unable to give details of the size of investment or planned output. Reuter 
TAIWAN REJECTS TEXTILE MAKERS EXCHANGE RATE PLEA

Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng rejected a request by textile makers to halt the rise of the Taiwan dollar against the U.S. Dollar to stop them losing orders to South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore, a spokesman for the Taiwan Textile Federation said. He quoted Chang as telling representatives of 19 textile associations last Saturday the government could not fix the Taiwan dollar exchange rate at 35 to one U.S. Dollar due to U.S. Pressure for an appreciation of the local currency. The Federation asked the government on February 19 to hold the exchange rate at that level. The federation said in its request that many local textile exporters were operating without profit and would go out of business if the rate continued to fall. Reuter 
CHINA CALLS FOR BETTER TRADE DEAL WITH U.S.

China called on the United States to remove curbs on its exports, to give it favourable trading status and ease restrictions on exports of high technology. But the U.S. Embassy replied that Chinese figures showing 13 years of trade deficits with the U.S. Out of the last 15 are inaccurate and said Peking itself would have to persuade Congress to change laws which limit its exports. The official International Business newspaper today published China's demands in a editorial to coincide with the visit of U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz. "It is extremely important that the U.S. Market reduce its restrictions on Chinese imports, provide the needed facilities for them and businessmen from both sides help to expand Chinese exports," the editorial said. "The U.S. Should quickly discard its prejudice against favourable tariff treatment for Chinese goods and admit China into the Generalised System of Preference (GSP). "Despite easing of curbs on U.S. Technology exports in recent years, control of them is still extremely strict and influences normal trade between the two countries," it added. The paper also printed an article by China's commercial counsellor in its Washington embassy, Chen Shibiao, who said that "all kinds of difficulties and restrictions" were preventing bilateral trade fulfilling its full potential. He named them as U.S. Protectionist behaviour, curbs on technology transfer and out-of-date trade legislation. Reuter 
U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY SAYS EXPORT RISE NEEDED

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said after the release of a sharply lower January leading indicator index that a pickup in exports is needed. "The best tonic for the economy now would be a pickup in net exports," he said in a statement after the department reported the index fell 1.0 pct in January from December, the sharpest drop since a 1.7 pct fall in July, 1984. The main reasons for the January decline after a 2.3 pct December rise were declines in building permits, new orders for plant and equipment and for consumer and industrial goods. Reuter 
AERO SERVICES <AEROE> GETS NASDAQ EXCEPTION

Aero Services Inc said its common stock will continue to be included for quotation in the National Association of Securities Dealers' NASDAQ system due to an exception from filing requiements, which it failed to meet as of January 15. The company said while it believes it can meet conditions the NASD imposed for the exception, there can be no assurance that it will do so. Reuter 
U.S. SINGLE-FAMILY HOME SALES FELL 6.8 PCT IN JAN AFTER REVISED 12.1 PCT DEC GAIN



U.S. HOME SALES FELL 6.8 PCT IN JANUARY

Sales of new single-family homes in the United States fell 6.8 pct in January from December to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 716,000 units, the Commerce Department said. The department revised downward December's sales to a 12.1 pct rise to 768,000 units from the previously reported 12.7 pct increase. The January decline in sales was the largest since last October when sales fell 9.3 pct. Before seasonal adjustment, the number of homes actually sold in January was 53,000, up from 49,000 in December but down from 59,000 in January, 1986. The January fall brought home sales to a level 1.6 pct below January, 1986, when they were a seasonally adjusted 728,000 units. The average price was a record 127,100 dlrs, surpassing the previous record 119,100 price set in December. The median price of a home in January reached 100,700 dlrs -- the first time the price has exceeded 100,000 dlrs. That compared with a median price of 94,600 dlrs in December and 94,000 dlrs in January a year ago. New homes available on the market in January totaled a seasonally adjusted 362,000 units, unchanged from December and equal to a 6.3 months' supply. The supply in December was 5.9 months. Reuter 
AMERICAN BARRICK <ABX> UNIT COMPLETES ISSUE

<American Barrick Resources Corp> said wholly owned Barrick Resources (USA) Inc completed the previously announced 50 mln U.S. dlr issue of two pct gold indexed notes, which are guaranteed by American Barrick. Reuter 
MCLEAN INDUSTRIES <MII> UNIT TRANSERS SERVICE

McLean Industries Inc said its shipping subsidiary, United States Lines Inc, reached an agreement in principle to transfer its South American service to American Transport Lines Inc, a subsidiary of <Crowley Maritime Corp>. Under the terms of the agreement, United States Lines will lease five vessels to American Transport for 15 months with an option to extend the period up to 10 years, the company said. In return, U.S. Lines will receive a fixed payment and a percentage of revenues for at least three years and possibly as long as American Transport utilizes its vessels and conducts trade in South America, the company said. The companies will consummate the transactions as soon as the required approvals are obtained, McLean said. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves, economists said. They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly by arranging 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. The Fed may add the reserves directly instead via System repurchases. Federal funds, which averaged 6.18 pct yesterday, opened at 6-3/16 pct and stayed there in early trading. Analysts said the rate is under upward pressure partly from settlement of 8.25 billion dlrs of five-year Treasury notes. Reuter 
GM <GM> HOPES FOR FIVE-FOLD RISE IN EUROPEAN SALES

U.S. Carmaker General Motors hopes to sell between 7,000 and 8,000 vehicles in Europe this year, a five-fold rise over the year before, James Fry, vice-president of GM Overseas Distribution Corporation told a news briefing. "The low dollar makes our prices very attractive," he said at a GM preview before the opening of the Geneva Motor Show. "We would like to sell between 7,000 and 8,000 units in Europe for the year to August 1987," he told Reuters later. Officials said GM sold 1,500 vehicles in the 1986 model year. Fry said that at an average price of 13,000 dlrs, his projected sales figures would mean turnover of between 91 mln and 104 mln dlrs in Europe. GM sales in Europe in the 1985 model year totalled 500 vehicles, due largely to uncompetitive prices because of the then strong dollar, Fry said. All GM vehicles sold in Europe are manufactured in the United States and Canada, he said, adding that most sales were in Switzerland followed by Sweden and West Germany. Reuter 
COFFEE TALKS COLLAPSE EASES NEED FOR U.S. BILL

The collapse of International Coffee Organization, ICO, talks on export quotas yesterday removes the immediate need to reinstate U.S. legislation allowing the customs service to monitor coffee imports, analysts here said. The Reagan administration proposed in trade legislation offered Congress last month that authority to monitor coffee imports be resumed. That authority lapsed in September 1986. A bill also was introduced by Rep. Frank Guarini (D-N.J.). However, the failure of the ICO talks in London to reach agreement on export quotas means the U.S. legislation is not immediately needed, one analyst said. Earlier supporters of the coffee bill hoped it could be passed by Congress quickly. "You're going to have a hard time convincing Congress (now) this is an urgent issue," the coffee analyst said. Reuter 
FORMER TREASURY OFFICIAL URGES CURRENCY REFORMS

Former Treasury official C. Fred Bergsten said a new exchange rate system is needed to replace the fixed and flexible exchange rate systems which he said had not worked. "I prefer a move to 'target zones' in which the major countries would determine ranges of 15-20 pct within which they would pledge to hold their exchange rates by direct intervention and, as necessary, by changes in monetary and other policies," Bergsten, now the director of the Institute for International Economics, said in a statement to a House Banking subcommittee. "The substantial correction of the exchange rate that has occurred since early 1985 is enormously welcome, and should produce a sizeable reduction in the U.S. trade deficit this year and next, but the imbalance will not fall much below 100 billion dlrs on present policies, so much more is needed," he said. Reuter 
YUGOSLAVIA WHEAT FREE OF WINTERKILL - USDA

There was no evidence of winterkill in Yugoslavian winter wheat during field travel along a line running northwest from Belgrade to near Maribor, the U.S. Agriculture Department's counselor in Belgrade said in a field report. The report, dated February 26, said there is evidence of delayed germination in most areas due to late seeding last fall because of dry conditions. However warm temperatures over the past three weeks have promoted some early growth and will help the crop catch up on last fall's late seeding, it said. Some Yugoslav agriculture officials are concerned about the situation because warm temperatures have brought the grain out of dormancy and taken away snow protection a little early, the report said. Cold temperatures over the next month could cause damage under these conditions, they said. The report said all wheat farmers contacted during the field trip were optimistic about the crop and the way it emerged from winter. Reuter 
LYPHOMED <LMED> IN JOINT MARKETING PACT

LyphoMed Inc said it has tentatively agreed to form a joint venture with privately-held Novopharm Ltd of Canada whereby each will market the other's drug in their home country. LyphoMed will sell Novopharm's oral pharmaceutical drugs in the U.S. and Novopharm will sell Lyphomed's injectable pharmaceutical drugs in Canada, it said. The joint venture gives LyphoMed entry into the hospital and retail oral pharmaceutical market with Novopharm's product line. Novopharm in turn will strengthen its position in the Canadian hospital market using LyphoMed's injectable products. The first product to be marketed will be cephalexin monohydrate, now marketed by Eli Lilly Co <LLY> as Keflex, a product whose patent expires in April. Keflex is an antibiotic with a current market in excess of 250 mln dlrs. It will be made by Novopharm in Canada, sold to the new joint venture, and distributed by LyphoMed in the U.S., it said. Reuter 
BELGIAN MINISTER SEES NEW ACCORD ON EC OILS/FATS

Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said he believed there would be a compromise within the European Community, EC, on its proposed tax on vegetable fats and oil, averting a pledged tough trade response by the United States. De Croo, in Washington for talks with Administration officials and Congressional leaders, said at a news conference there is a battle within the community on the tax on fats and oils used in the 12 EC countries. But he added, "I do not think it will be a big issue because there will be a big debate inside Europe," adding "so there will be a compromise." U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said yesterday that if the community went ahead with the tax, the United States would respond "vigorously" to protect its trade rights and access to community markets. De Croo also said he thought the community would postpone its April 28 deadline for imposing new slaughterhouse rules to cover all meats brought into EC nations if some progress was made toward resolving differences with the United States. U.S. officials say its rules now meet health standards and the EC should require equivalent but not identical standards. He also told reporters he hoped the community could deal with another controversial health proposal that would forbid the feeding of hormones to cattle, which is also opposed by the United States. De Croo gave no deals on how he though the issue might be resolved. That rule is go into effect on January 1, 1988. He said U.S. cattlemen say there is no reason to change slaughterhouse practices in April if the meat is to be banned a few months later by the hormone rule. Reuter 
FED SETS 1.5 BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPURCHASE, FED SAYS



FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/4 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
U.S. SETS CORN DEFICIENCY PAYMENT HALF PIK CERTS

The upcoming five-month deficiency payments to corn and sorghum farmers will be made half in cash and half in generic commodity certificates, a senior Agriculture Department official told Reuters. Around 300 mln dlrs of the in-kind certificates, or "certs," will be mailed out to farmers around March 15 or 16, Tom von Garlem, Assistant Deputy Administrator for USDA's state and county operations, said. The decision to make the payments in a 50/50 cash/certs ratio was made Monday, but payments to producers will be delayed until mid-month due to a problem with USDA's computer program, von Garlem said. get 11.5 cts per bushel in this next payment -- 5.75 cts in certs and around 5.5 cts cash (5.75 cts minus Gramm-Rudman). Farmers who did not receive advance deficiency payments at signup will receive 63 cts per bushel. Slightly more than half of this payment will be in cash, von Garlem said, but he said this will not markedly upset the 50/50 ratio, since most farmers got advance payments. "The final certificate payments will be very close to 300 mln dlrs," he said. When asked if the Office of Management and Budget had resisted the cash/certs ratio, the USDA official said that "we proposed 50/50 and OMB accepted it." Reuter 
COPPER STUDY GROUP CONSIDERED AT GENEVA MEETING

Major copper producing and consuming countries are considering a U.S. proposal to set up a study group to review the world copper market, delegates said. The U.S. initiative was introduced last December at a meeting held here under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). The U.S., the world's largest copper consumer and second biggest producer after Chile, has proposed setting up a body to improve statistics and market transparency of the copper economy, and provide a forum for discussion. The new body would not aim at negotiating measures to stabilise depressed world prices. This week's meeting, which began yesterday, is due to end Friday. Reuter 
TOTAL U.S. COPPER STOCKS LOWER IN JANUARY

Total copper stocks held by U.S. rod mills and refiners (including wirebars, cathodes, scrap, rod and in-process material) dropped to 155,467,000 lbs at the end of January from 203,513,000 lbs at the end of December, the American Bureau of Metal Statistics said. Rod stocks held by refiners and rod mills decreased to 61,384,000 lbs in January from 69,986,000 lbs in December. Cathode inventories at rod mills fell to 86,456,000 lbs in January from 124,409,000 lbs in December, while wirebar stocks were lower at 3,508,000 lbs versus 4,913,000 lbs in December. December rod mill wirebar use nearly doubled to 3,148,000 lbs in January from 1,540,000 lbs in December. Cathode use by mills and refiners increased to 255,266,000 lbs in January from 238,821,000 lbs in December. Reuter 
ONE OFFER FOR SRW WHEAT ON CALL SESSION, NO MILO

One offer but no bid was posted for SRW wheat on the call session at the St Louis Merchants Exchange today. There were no bids or offers for milo. June 15-July 15 bill of lading for wheat was offered at 17 over July, no comparison, no bid. Reuter 
BELGIAN SAYS EC WOULD REACT TO TEXTILE BILL

Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman De Croo said if Congress passed legislation curbing world textile imports the only way the European Community (EC) could react was to retaliate. De Croo said at a news conference "if you limit textile imports, you will re-orient textiles to Europe." And that he said would trigger EC taxes on U.S. goods. Congress passed a textile bill two years ago, but it was vetoed by President Reagan on grounds that curbing imports to protect the domestic textile industry would trigger retaliation U.S. trading partners. A similar bill has been introducted this year, in a Congress with a bigger Democratic majority and with a President weakened by the Iran scandal. De Croo, here for talks with Administration officials and Congressmen, said if a textile bill passed, "the only way we could react would be retaliation, and it would cause more retaliation, which is not a good way to deal with problems." He said if a textile bill was enacted, "we will impose taxes on a lot of American products." He said "it would be stupid. We have to avoid that." He said Congressmen seem upset mosty with Japan, because of its massive trade suprlus with the United States, and not with EC nations, but EC nations will be hurt by the diverted shipments of Asian textiles. De Croo also criticized the way U.S. officials try to solve EC trade issues, saying "each time we come in contact, it a conflict contact. The clouts are coming fom the West." He said it then is a crisis atmosphere with officials cross the Atlantic and dramatized with headlines. "This is not the way to work in a serious way between two big powers," De Croo said. reuter 
ROSTENKOWSKI SAYS HE WILL OPPOSE PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL IN U.S. HOUSE



ROSTENKOWSKI OPPOSES PROTECTIONIST TRADE BILL

House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski said Congress must avoid a temptation to pass a protectionist trade bill this year. In remarks prepared for delivery before the National Press Club, Rostenkowski, D-Ill., predicted major trade legislation will be sent to President Reagan by the end of this year. But he warned that his "conciliatory message" on the trade bill did not mean he would oppose a proposal that would warn other countries their access to the American market would be curtailed unless they opened their markets to U.S. goods. "Complaints about (foreign trade) restraints are not a smoke screen for protectionism, they a plea for fairness," Rostenkowski said. "It is only reasonable to ask the nations that have denied us access to open up in return for continued freedom in the American market," he added. However, he said there would likely be changes in the market access proposal from the plan which cleared the House last year. That plan would have set a specific time table for foreign countries to ease import restraints or they would face a 25 pct cut in exports to the United States. Reuter 
SOVIET SOYMEAL IMPORTS SEEN RISING IN 1987

Soviet imports of soymeal may reach or exceed one mln tonnes between January and September this year, the Oil World newsletter said. Oil World said it was likely the Soviet Union would reduce soybean imports and step up significantly its imports of meal. At least 500,000 tonnes of soymeal may be shipped from the European Community and South America in the January/March quarter, with additional large quantities likely to be imported in the April and July quarters from Argentina and Brazil, it said. No figures were given for imports in the corresponding periods of 1986. The change made sense in view of the recent purchases of probably 250,000 tonnes of West European and Polish rapeseed and large scale butter imports that were expected from March onward, it said. Oil World said substantial losses of Soviet winter grain area due to recent severe frosts were probably behind the recent pick-up in Soviet purchases of U.S. Corn. It noted that an additional one mln tonnes of U.S. Corn had been bought recently by the Soviet Union. Reuter 
ROSTENKOWSKI RELUCTANT TO BACK TAX HIKE

House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski said he would be reluctant to back the tax increase if it did not have President Reagan's support. He told a National Press Club luncheon there would be a number of tax proposals that could be debated if Reagan sought a tax increase to help balance the budget. However, he said he would prefer to leave the tax rates enacted in last year's tax reform bill unchanged. There have been calls in Congress to hold the rates at the 1987 level rather than allow them to fall next year. Reagan proposed 22 billion dlrs in revenue as part of his 1988 budget proposal, but it did not include general tax increases. On trade issues, Rostenkowski said he did not expect the major trade bill this year would single out any U.S. industry for special protection. "To go after individual items in a trade bill is suicide," he said. This apparently ruled out congressional approval of another textile trade bill to limit quotas on textile imports, as was proposed again this year. Reuter 
IMF APPROVES 125.9 MLN SDR'S FOR JAMAICA

The International Monetary Fund said it approved 125.9 mln SDR's to assist development in Jamaica. Of this total, 85 mln SDR's can be drawn over the next 15 months under a standby arrangement in support of the government's economic and financial program. Another 40.9 mln is available immediately under the compensatory financing facility, the IMF's pool of funds to assist countries hit by export shortfalls. The IMF said that Jamaica had a shortfall in the year ended September 1986 due to reduced sales of Bauxite, alummina and travel expenditures. After some deterioration, the situation and prospects for Jamaica improved substantially in 1986 and early 1987, mainly as a result of a decline in energy prices and interest rates, and a strong recovery in the tourist sector, the IMF said. The program that the new funding supports is designed to continue the adjustment and restructuring effort so as to achieve sustained growth, a lower rate of inflation and a balance of payments viability in the medium term. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE SAYS REAGAN TO MAKE 1530 EST/2030 GMT ANNOUNCEMENT, TOPIC UNDISCLOSED



REAGAN TO MAKE ANNOUNCEMENT

The White House said President Reagan would make an announcement at 1530 EST/2030 gmt but the topic was undisclosed. A spokesman said officials would brief reporters on details of the announcement afterwards. Athough Reagan's topic was not disclosed, speculation centered on the possible naming of a nominee to to head the CIA or a response to the Soviet Union's offer to negotiate a separate arms control agreement on medium range missiles in Europe. Reuter 
IMF APPROVES DEVELOPMENT AID FOR JAMAICA

The International Monetary Fund, IMF, said it approved 125.9 mln sdr's to assist development in Jamaica. Over the next 15 months 85 mln sdr's can be drawn under a standby arrangement in support of the government's economic and financial program. Another 40.9 mln is available immediately following an export shortfall for Jamaica in the year ended September 1986 due to reduced income from bauxite, alumina and tourism, the IMF said. Reuter 
TREASURY'S MULFORD SEES BRAZIL LENDING PROGRESS

Assistant Treasury Secretary David Mulford said rapid progress was being made in talks with commercial banks for loans to Argentina, the Philippines and Brazil. "This should result in substantial new lending for the major debtors in 1987," he said in prepared testimony for the Subcommittee on International Development Institutions of the U.S. House of Representatives. Until recently, commercial banks were slow to conclude new financing packages pending completion of a Mexican package, Mulford said. "We are concerned about the backlog of other financial packages and would like to see these move ahead soon," he said, "There is some evidence that this is already happening. Chile signed an agreement with banks last week, and there was also an agreement with Venezuela on rescheduling principal payments on previously renegotiated debt. "We look for rapid progress in commercial bank discussions with Argentina, the Philippines, and ultimately Brazil," he said. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 104,000 TONNES OF  CORN SOLD TO UNKNOWN DESTINATIONS FOR 1986/87



USDA REPORTS CORN SOLD SOLD TO UNKNOWN

The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported sales of 104,000 tonnes of corn to unknown destinations for shipment in the 1986/87 marketing year. The marketing year for corn began September 1, it said. Reuter 
PRESIDENT REAGAN SAYS U.S. TO SUBMIT DRAFT TREATY ON INTERMEDIATE MISSILES REDUCTION



AMEX HAS RECORD SEAT SALE

The American Stock Exchange said it sold an options principal membership for a record 305,000 dlrs, 56,000 dlrs more than the previous seat sold on January 19, 1987, and 35,000 dlrs above the previous record high in 1983. The Exchange said the current bid is 280,000 dlrs and the current offer is 315,000 dlrs. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS U.S. TO OFFER MISSILE TREATY

President Reagan said the United States would offer a draft treaty on medium-range missile reductions at talks with the Soviet Union in Geneva tomorrow. Reagan also said in a brief televised appearance in the White House briefing room that he was summoning Ambassador Max Kampelman and the other top U.S. arms negotiators home for consultations later this week. He said they will then return to Geneva for detailed negotiations on the arms pact. Welcoming Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's offer Saturday to proceed with a treaty on Intermediate Range Nuclear forces (INF) separate from strategic and space weapons, Reagan said: "This removes a serious obstacle to progress towards INF reductions." "To seize this new opportunity I have instructed our negotiators to begin presentation of our draft INF treaty text at Geneva tomoorrow," Reagan said. He said he wanted to stress that of the issues remaining to be resolved in the negotiations on medium-range U.S. and Soviet missiles, "none is more important than verification ... Any agreement must be effectively verifiable." The United States has been working closely with allies and friends in Europe and Asia to develop a proposed treaty on reducing these weapons with an eye to their eventual elimination, the president said. He said the treaty draft followed the formula he agreed upon with Gorbachev at their summit meeting last October in Reykjavik, Iceland, which was shelved when the Soviet leader insisted on linking approval of such a pact to agreement on long-range strategic missiles and anti-missile defense. "I remain firmly committed to these objectives," he said. He said Gorbachev's new offer Saturday ending the linkage of the three areas of negotiations removed a major barrier to agreement and was consistent with the Soviet position at the earlier Reagan-Gorbachev summit in Geneva in November 1985. Reuter 
MORE INTERMEDIATE U.S. WHEAT CREDITS FOR MOROCCO

The Commodity Credit Corporation has approved an additional 45.0 mln dlrs under its interemdiate export credit guarantee program, GSM-103, for sales of U.S. wheat to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The action increases Morocco's cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for wheat under GSM-103 to 75.0 mln dlrs. The credit terms extended for exports under the program must be in excess of three years but no more than seven years to eligible for credit coverage. All sales under this line must be registered and exported by September 30, 1987. The department also said the guarantee line for sales of U.S. wheat under the Export Credit Guarantee Program, GSM-102, has been decreased 45.0 mln dlrs to 60.0 mln. Reuter 
SOVIET GRAINS SEEN ENTERING SPRING ON SHAKY NOTE

Soviet winter grains could be off to a faulty start this spring after enduring an usually dry fall and cold winter, weather and crop analysts said. Prospects for another near-record grain harvest in the Soviet Union appear dim at this point, but it is premature to forecast any major crop problems, analysts said. But the situation bears careful watching over the next six weeks and will ultimately impact the Soviet grain supply and future buying plans, analysts of the Soviet Union said. "From a weather standpoint, you can say with certainty that the Soviets are not getting off to a good start and will have a lower crop (than last year)," Gail Martell, chief meteorologist for E.F. Hutton said. The next six weeks in the USSR's grain growing areas will be the crucial period that will determine the final outcome of the winter crops, Martell and other analysts said. "Where the crop is really made or broken is still ahead of us," an Agriculture Department authority on the USSR said. The Soviet Union recently reported that nine mln hectares of winter grain will have to be reseeded due to winterkill. This would be equal to about 25 pct of the total winter crop and would be the second highest winterkill in ten years, the USDA analyst said. With a timely spring, Soviet farmers would probably be able to reseed the damaged acreage with spring crops, but analysts noted that spring crops normally yield lower than winter crops -- sometimes as much as 30-35 pct lower. Normally winterkill is caused by inadequate snowcover combined with cold temperatures. This winter, however, snowcover in Soviet grain areas has generally been excellent, so the bulk of winterkill, analysts speculate, likely has been due to a very dry fall and subsequent poor crop germination. "Fall dryness may be a problem. There's a good correlation between mediocre crops and fall dryness," Martell said. Precipitation last fall was as little as 25 pct of normal in southern and northern Ukraine, and below normal over the entire winter crop area, she said. Recent cold temperatures in grain areas in which the snowcover has been gradually melting could also have caused problems of ice-crusting and winterkill, Jim Candor, senior forecaster for Accu Weather, said. Livestock feed needs have probably increased because of the fall and winter, analysts said. The dry fall damaged pastures, the cold winter raised feed demands and a late spring would require longer off-pasture feeding, they said. "The Soviets are not in a desperate situation ... they don't have to buy (grains) now," a USDA official said. But if the Soviets are worried about their winter crops and if they feel that last year's huge crop of 210 mln tonnes was a one-time fluke brought on by perfect conditions, more Soviet buying might occur to insure crop supplies, he said. Bad weather during the next six weeks could push the Soviets back into the market, weather analysts said. "A lot of winterkill could occur during the next month and a half," Martell said. Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON FEB 27

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on Feb 27 to 3.482 billion dlrs from 1.538 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 21.334 billion dlrs from 25.164 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 24.816 billion dlrs on Feb 27 compared with 26.702 billion dlrs on Feb 26. Reuter 
ALLEGHENY INT'L <AG> TO CLOSE THREE PLANTS

Allegheny International Inc said it plans to close three appliance manufacturing plants as part of a restructuring. The company said it will close its Milwaukee plant by October 1, idling 350 employees, and its Dayton, Tenn., facility, with about 300 employees, by March 1, 1988. In addition, a plant in Toronto will phase out production of small electric appliances over the next eight month's, affecting about 195 of the facility's 425 employees. Production of barbecue grills and lawn mowers is also under review at the Toronto plant, operated by the company's Sunbeam Corp (Canada) unit. The plant will continue selling appliances in Canada. The company's Oster division makes blenders and other appliances at the Milwaukee and Dayton plants. Oster headquarters will stay in Milwaukee and manufacturing of products will be consolidated at other facilities in McMinnville and Cookville, both in Tennessee. Reuter 
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK

Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 4.4 mln barrels in the week ended Feb 27 to 127.10 mln barrels from 131.50 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said. In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks fell 30,000 barrels to 252.92 mln barrels from a revised 252.95 mln, while crude oil stocks rose 700,000 barrels to 329.38 mln from a revised 328.68 mln. It said residual fuel stocks fell 380,000 barrels to 38.04 mln from 38.42 mln barrels. API said refinery runs in the week fell to 12.17 mln barrels per day from a revised 12.42 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 78.1 pct, off from a revised 79.7 pct. Crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.98 mln bpd from a revised 4.22 mln, API added. Reuter 
USDA TO REDUCE CITRUS ESTIMATING PROGRAM

the U.S. Agriculture Department's National Agricultural Statistics Services (NASS) said it will change its citrus estimate program for California and Arizona, starting in 1988. NASS said it will discontinue California forecasts for lemons during December, February, March, May and June and for grapefruit and tangerines for those months plus November. Forecasts for lemons will be issued in October, November, January, April and July and for grapefruit in October, January, April, and July and for tangerines in October, January and April. There will be no change in the estimating program for California oranges. Arizona forecasts will be dropped for lemons, oranges, grapefruit and tangerines in November, December February, March, May and June, with forecasts retained in October, January, April and July, it said. There will be no changes in the estimating program for citrus in Texas or Florida. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE PANEL COULD CONSIDER TRADE MEASURE

The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee may take up a bill tomorrow that would strengthen the activities of U.S. agricultural trade teams in selected developing countries, committee staff said. The measure, sponsored by committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Sen. John Melcher (D-Mont.), would establish trade teams of between six and nine persons drawn from federal agencies and private voluntary organizations, staff said. The trade missions would seek to generate interest in the U.S. government's food donation and commercial programs -- PL480, Section 416, export credit and export enhancement -- and upon return be required to advocate extension of concessional or commercial benefits to interested countries. The trade teams would be made up of representatives of the U.S. Agriculture Department, State Department, the Agency for International Development and private voluntary organizations such as U.S. Wheat Associates. The bill would require teams within six months to visit seven countries: Mexico, Philippines, Indonesia, India, Bangladesh, Senegal and Nigeria. Within one year after passage of the measure, another eight countries would have to be visited: Peru, Kenya, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Venezuela, Tunisia and Morocco. Other countries could be added to the list. Senate staff members said the bill, still in the drafting stages, had broad support and was expected to be approved by the committee tomorrow. Reuter 
U.S. OFFICIALS SAY BRAZIL SHOULD DEAL WITH BANKS

The U.S. is sticking for the moment to its policy that Brazil, which two weeks ago suspended debt payments to private banks, should deal with its creditors and not with governments, U.S. officials said. "I don't see any desire here to scurry around and help Brazil until we get a better sense of what they are trying to do," a senior administration official stated. "Brazil has to do business through the banks at this point," said another official following an assessment of that country's latest debt crisis. The official, who asked that his name not be used, said the National Security Council, the Treasury and State departments and other agencies held a meeting yesterday to discuss the situation. In a related development, small regional banks that have made loans to Brazil and other heavily-indebted Latin American countries, will meet with Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker here tomorrow. Brazil, with about 108 billion dlrs in debt, shocked banks late last month when it stopped interest payments on 68 billion dlrs owed to them until it can work out its problems. Brazil's trade surplus, its main source of foreign exchange has dwindled in recent months, making it difficult to service its debt. The official said the interagency meeting was called to discuss "the general debt situation and compare notes on (Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson) Funaro." Funaro, who told reporters here that he wanted a political discussion with industrialized nations on Brazil's debt problems in an effort to obtain more and faster lending from official sources, held discussions here on Friday with Volcker, Treasury Secretary James Baker and other officials. Another senior administration official said he was perplexed by Funaro's decision to discuss the latest crisis with governments and not with creditor banks, at a time when Brazil is in danger of losing short-term credit lines. "We are not clear at all on his tactics. To me it seems bizarre, just bizarre," the official said. One official today described Funaro's argument as "nonsense," and said there had been a considerable flow of funds to Brazil, for which that country was in arrears. Funaro has said Brazil acted to protect its reserves but wanted to avoid a confrontation. The consensus among administration officials seems to be that Brazil's latest debt crisis is the result of the domestic economic problems. "Brazil is a special case, but there's no doubt they would not be in the mess they're in if they had not screwed-up their economic policy," a senior official added. Several of the regional banks that will meet with Volcker tomorrow declined to comment because the talks will be held at the Fed's suggestion. "Since they are the hosts, we feel it's up to them if they want to say something," one regional bank official said. But other banking sources said that regional banks, many of which are refusing to continue lending to Latin America, are dissatisfied with decisions of major banks such as Citibank, in the refinancing of foreign debts. The sources added that Volcker, for his part, is dissatisfied with some major banks' refusal to make interest rate concessions to Brazil and other Latin American debtors, and would like to see smaller creditor banks take a more actve role in the rescheduling process. Reuter 
FCOJ SUPPLIES SIGNIFICANTLY ABOVE YEAR AGO-USDA

Total supply of frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) in 1986/87 is expected to be significantly above year-earlier levels, even with carry-in stocks well below the previous season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In a summary of its Fruit Situation Report, the Department said Florida's imports of FCOJ, mostly from Brazil, have shown sharp gains to date. The Department noted the price of FCOJ will probably be affected by the final decision, scheduled for April 22, on whether the U.S. considers Brazilian FCOJ exports to the U.S. have caused injury. Continuing strong demand for fresh and processing fruit coupled with seasonal declines in supplies mean that grower prices will remain higher this spring than a year earlier. The department said stocks of fresh apples in cold storage at the beginning of February were moderately larger than a year earlier, but strong demand has kept apple prices firm. In view of the strong demand and seasonally reduced supplies, apple prices are projected to stay firm. During the remainder of 1986/87, supplies of most processed noncitrus fruit will be smaller than a year ago, it said. Movement of canned fruit has improved, and remaining suppies for some canned fruit items are tight and as a consequence prices have strengthened, the department said. Reuter 
SECURITIES TAX WOULD NEED WHITE HOUSE SUPPORT

House Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski would want White House support for any tax increase, including a tax on securities transactions, before considering the issue, a staff member said. In addition, congressional leaders have not agreed on whether they will seek any tax increase this year, he said. Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat whose committee is in charge of tax legislation, met this afternoon with House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, to discuss a variety of tax and budget issues, an aide said. He added that Wright did not endorse the securities transfer tax but raised it yesterday as a possible way to cut the federal deficit. The aide to Wright added that Wright asked the Ways and Means Committee to look into the securities transfer tax. However, he said Wright had not recommended it as he had another tax proposal to hold income tax rates at the 1987 level rather than allow the 1987 tax rate cut to take place. Wright brought up a 0.5 pct tax on all sales and purchases of publicly traded securities as a way to raise about 17 billion dlrs a year, the aide said. The New York Stock Exchange said it had not seen the proposal by the House Speaker but added that it is "strongly opposed to any proposal to impose a transfer tax on securities transactions." NYSE vice president Richard Torrenzano said in a statement, "Such a tax would be paid by millions of investors nationwide and would be counter-productive, making America's securities industry vulnerable to foreign competition at a time when financial markets are becoming increasingly international." Reuter 
CBOE MEMBERSHIP SEAT SELLS FOR RECORD HIGH

A membership seat on the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) sold for a record 342,000 dlrs Friday, the exchange said today. The previous record price of 308,000 dlrs was set on February 17. The current bid for a CBOE seat is 315,000 dlrs and the offer is 345,000 dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. CORN, SORGHUM PAYMENTS 50-50 CASH/CERTS

Eligible producers of 1986 crop U.S. corn and sorghum will receive an estimated 600 mln dlrs in deficiency payments -- 50 pct in generic commodity certificates and 50 pct in cash, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It said corn producers will receive about 515 mln dlrs and sorghum producers about 85 mln dlrs. Only the cash portion of the payments will be subject to the 4.3 pct reduction in compliance with the Gramm-Rudman budget deficit control act of 1985, it said. Corn and sorghum producers who requested advance deficiency payments have already received about 2.8 billion dlrs and 225 mln dlrs, respectively, USDA said. The Department said deficiency payment rates of 51.5 cents per bushel for corn and 49 cents per bushel for sorghum were received by producers requesting advance payments. Deficiency payments are calculated as the difference between an established target price and the higher of the basic loan rate, or the national average price received by farmers during the first five months of the marketing year -- September-January. National weighted average market prices for the first five months of the season were 1.46 dlrs per bushel for corn and 1.33 dlrs per bushel for sorghum. Eligible corn producers will be paid 63 cts per bushel, based on the difference between the 3.03 target price and the 2.40 dlr per bushel basic loan rate. Sorghum producers' deficiency payment rate will be 60 cents per bushel, based on the difference between the 2.88 dlrs per bushel target price and the 2.28 dlrs per bushel basic loan rate. The deficiency payment rates for both commodities are the maximum permitted by law, the department said. Eligible corn and sorghum producers will receive another 1986 crop deficiency payment in October if the national average market prices received by farmers during the entire marketing year for both commodities are below the basic loan rates, the department said. The payments will be issued through local Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service offices, it said. Reuter 
CBOE MEMBERSHIP SEAT SELLS FOR RECORD HIGH

A membership seat on the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) sold for a record 342,000 dlrs Friday, the exchange said today. The previous record price of 308,000 dlrs was set on February 17. The current bid for a CBOE seat is 315,000 dlrs and the offer is 345,000 dlrs. Reuter 
USDA PROPOSES NAME CHANGES IN BEEF GRADE

The U.S. Agriculture Department proposes to rename the "USDA Good" grade of beef to "USDA Select." The department said the proposed change is in response to a petition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and would present a more positive image of this grade of beef and help calorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat. Under current rules, the "good" grade of meat has less marbling and fat than the "prime" or "choice" grades, it said. Standards for all of the grades would remain unchanged under the proposal. Reuter 
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT TO PAY SUBSIDIES--USDA

The Australian Government will likely reimburse the Australian Wheat Board, AWB, about 132 mln (U.S.) dlrs to pay wheat farmers for their 1986/87 crop, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its report on Export Markets for U.S. Grains, the department said the sharp fall in world wheat prices has reduced the export sales revenue of the AWB to levels insufficient to cover its breakeven export price estimated at around 98 dlrs per tonne. For example the recent large sales of wheat to China (1.5 mln tonnes) and Egypt (2.0 mln tonnes) were well below the breakeven export price, it said. Australian wheat farmers normally receive an advance payment known as the Guaranteed Minimum Price, GMP, calculated at 90 pct of the average of estimated returns in the current year and the two lowest of the previous three years, the department said. In addition, deductions for taxes, freight, handling and storage are deducted from the GMP the farmer receives. But the department said the Australian Bureau of Agricultural Economics, BAE, predicts wheat production will drop sharply from 17.8 mln tonnes in 1986/87 to 13.5 mln in 1989/90. The decline will result from low world grain prices leading to shifts to livestock and other crops which could benefit U.S. wheat exports, the department said. Reuter 
SAUDI SUCCESS SEEN IN CURBING OPEC PRODUCTION

Saudi Arabia will succeed in pressuring other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to stay within their production quotas, said Morgan Stanley Group managing director John Wellemeyer. Wellemeyer, speaking to reporters at an offshore oil engineering conference, also said he expected OPEC nations to attempt to hold prices under 20 dlrs a barrel for several years to keep industrial demand for residual fuel oil strong. "Over the next few weeks I think you'll see a concerted effort by the Saudis to get production down," Wellemeyer said. "The Saudis are committed to that price level (of 18 dlrs a barrel) and are willing to make it happen again," he said. In recent weeks, oil prices fell to the 16 to 17 dlrs a barrel level on market reports of some OPE members producing above their quota, pushing total OPEC production to 15.8 mln barrels per day. But prices rebounded today, with April U.S. crude prices up about one dlr to over 17 dlrs a barrel on a belief Saudi Arabia is attempting to curb OPEC output. Wellemeyer said that sharp declines in U.S. oil production could push demand for OPEC oil above 20 mln barrels per day as early as 1989 and up to 24 mln barrels per day by 1993. Although the projected increases in demand for OPEC oil should strengthen world prices, Wellemeyer said he believed the organization would hold its official price below 20 dlrs a barrel for some time to prevent residual fuel users from switching to natural gas supplies. The interfuel swing market accounts for about eight mln barrels a day, or 18 pct of the world demand for oil. Reuter 
EC DRIVING TO CAPTURE BRAZIL WHEAT MARKET - USDA

The European Community, EC, sold 75,000 tonnes of soft wheat at a subsidized price of between 85 and 89 dlrs per tonne FOB for March delivery in a continuing bid to establish itself in the Brazilian wheat market, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The sale sharply undercut the U.S. offer of 112 dlrs per tonne FOB for 33,000 tonnes of wheat, it said in its latest report on Export Markets for U.S grains. EC sales to Brazil total about 225,000 tonnes during 1986/87 (July-June) in stark contrast to only 50,000 tonnes in the 1985/86 season, it said. The increasing presence of EC wheat in Brazil comes at a time when the Brazilian Wheat Board, BWB, expects the wheat import market will expand to 3.4 mln tonnes from the current forecast of 3.0 mln in the 1986/87 year. The BWB cites record consumption and an eventual decline in domestic production, and says government plans to lower the guaranteed price of wheat from 242 dlrs per tonne to 180 dlrs will contribute to greater import demand, the USDA said. It said the BWB expects the U.S. to be major supplier of the additional 400,000 tonnes, but commitments for purchase of U.S. wheat through two-thirds of 1986/87 year total only 600,000 tonnes versus 700,000 a year ago. Reuter 
MANDATORY PRODUCTION CONTROLS DEBATED AT APC

Delegates to the American Pork Congress will decide whether or not they want mandatory production controls when they vote on the official pork producer policy wednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said. The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened to both sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman Berkley Bedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economics for the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention in Indianapolis. Reuter 
TAIWAN BUYS 25,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS

Taiwan bought 25,000 tonnes U.S. soybeans today at 203.40 dlrs a tonne, C and F, Gulf, for May 15-30 shipment, private export sources said. Reuter 
TAIWAN PASSES ON U.S. CORN, WILL RETENDER

Taiwan passed on its tender overnight for 25,000 tonnes of U.S. corn and 49,000 tonnes U.S. sorghum, private export sources said. Taiwan will retender for the corn, for May 15-30 shipment if via the Gulf, or June 1-15 via Pacific northwest, on March 6, but has not rescheduled a tender for sorghum, they said. Reuter 
BANGLADESH PASSES ON TENDER FOR SOFT WHEAT

Bangladesh passed on its weekend tender for 100,000 tonnes of optional origin soft wheat, private export sources said. Reuter 
AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE PLANS AD CAMPAIGN

The American Stock Exchange (Amex), which faces stiff competition from the New York Stock Exchange and the over-the-counter market for listed companies, said it is launching a 2 mln dlr advertising campaign. Amex will advertise on television for the first time, it said. The campaign also includes print ads. "Our entry into television advertising reflects our optimism for the future. We have proved ourselves a vigorous and competitive marketplace and we are eager to communicate that wherever and whenever we can," said Arthurt Levitt Jr., chairman of the exchange, in a statement. The exchange said its advertising campaign, with the theme "We Extend Your Reach," focuses on its role as a diversified financial exchange trading both stocks and options. The television commercials will air on network, cable and local television stations. The commercials will be broadcast during March, May, September and November. The commercials, titled "The Options Pit," and "An Attractive Investment," describe Amex's technology advances and international ties. The print campaign consists of four ads targeted to specific audiences: listed companies, individual investors, institutional investors and brokers. The Amex currently has a two-way trading link with the Toronto Exchange and has an agreement with the Europeaon Options Exchange to trade XMI, the major market index of 20 blue-chip stocks, during European trading hours. The latter is expected to begin by mid-1987. Reuter 
PORK CHECKOFF REFUNDS LESS THAN EXPECTED

The National Pork Board announced at the American Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refunds under the legislative checkoff program are running less than expected. The Board oversees collection and distribution of funds from the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farm bill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois and chairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs was collected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct, considerably less than expected. "We believe that this indicates good producer support for the new checkoff. We're getting good compliance from markets, from packers and from dealers," Rosendale said. Reuter 
SOUTH AFRICA CORN EXPORTS COULD BE REDUCED-USDA

Despite earlier optimistic indications, the South African corn crop is at a critical stage in its development and recent reports of heat stress could reduce production and therefore exportable supplies, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its report on Export Markets for U.S. Grains, the department said South Africa's corn exports in the 1986/87 (Oct-Sept) season are estimated at 2.5 mln tonnes, up 40 pct from the previous year. The re-emergence of South Africa as a competitor follows a period of severe droughts, which at one point required South Africa to import 2.7 mln tones of U.S. corn in 1983/84, it said. Since those imports in 1983/84, the U.S. has been facing increased competition from South Africa in Taiwan and Japan. But if South Africa is perceived as lacking available supplies, purchases of U.S. corn may be further stimulated, the department said. Reuter 
CBT TRADERS LOOK AHEAD TO SPRING PLANTINGS

Chicago Board of trade grain traders and analysts voiced a lot of interest in how farmers planned to handle their upcoming spring plantings, prompting sales of new crop months of corn and oats and purchases in new crop soybeans in the futures markets. Professionals in the grains trade think that farmers will be more willing to stick with corn acres than soybeans because corn is protected by the acreage reduction program. That gives deficiency payments to farmers if corn prices stay low. Farmers can place soybeans under the loan program if they sign-up for reduced acreage, but they have no price guarantees. With the price outlook for both commodities so dismal, traders believe farmers will want to stick with a sure thing rather than gamble on soybeans, even though the new crop soybean/corn ratio of 2.9/1 would make planting soybeans more attractive under normal circumstances. An announcement late Friday that the USDA will lift the limited cross-compliance requirement for the 1987 oats crop, means farmers will be able plant an estimated two to three mln more oat acres this year than last without being penalized, traders said. Here too, acres some farmers may have been thinking of shifting to soybeans will now be planted with oats, due to the more attractive deal from the government, they added. Cotton prices are almost twice what they were just six months ago, which should prompt many farmers in the South to put soybean land back into cotton. One of the reasons for the steady increase in soybean production in recent years has been a general shift of acres in traditional cotton producing regions of the South to soybeans, which are easier to grow, one commercial trader said. Reuter 
U.S. CONGRESS TO LOOK AT SOIL PROGRAM EXEMPTIONS

The Senate Agriculture Committee is expected to take up a bill tomorrow that would exempt from government conservation regulations those farmers who have rotated alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes with row crops, committee staff said. Under current so-called "sodbuster" law, farmers who planted alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes on highly erodible land in the years 1981 through 1985 lose federal farm program benefits if they produce a row crop on that land in later years. Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.), sponsor of the measure, said recently that those crop rotating practices resulted in less erosion than the practices of many farmers who produced strictly row crops. Reuter 
NATIONAL PORK BOARD ALLOCATES 2.4 MLN DLRS

The National Pork Board on Monday allocated 2.4 mln dlrs in discretionary funds, collected from the 100 pct national checkoff program, to three industry organizations. The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, will receive almost 1.8 mln dlrs for use in the areas of food service, consumer education and marketing. In addition the board allocated 375,000 dlrs in use in "Pork - The Other White Meat" campaign, according to a Pork Board spokesperson. The National Livestock and Meat Board will receive 644,000 dlrs to continue work in educating health care officials. 120,000 dlrs in matching funds will be provided to the meat board for use in the development of a better market for processed meats. The Meat Export Federation was awarded 50,000 dlrs to increase the market for chilled and processed U.S. pork in Japan and Singapore. Retail stores in these two countries will be providing additional funding for the program. A total of 5,000 dlrs for work in encouraging McDonalds to expand its McRib sandwich to Japan and Singapore was also awarded to the Meat export Federation. Reuter 
REAGAN NOMINATES FBI DIRECTOR TO HEAD CIA

President Reagan nominated Federal Bureau of Investigation Director William Webster to be director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), in succession to ailing William Casey. The announcement came one day after Reagan withdrew the nomination of Deputy CIA Dirctor Robert Gates, who faced opposition in the Senate because of the CIA's role in the Iran-contra scandal. "Bill Webster will bring a remarkable depth and breadth of experience as well as a remarkable record of achievement to this position," said Reagan in a statement read by White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. Reuter 
REAGAN SEEKS MORE AID FOR CENTRAL AMERICA

President Reagan, seeking to salvage his Central America policy from the Iran arms scandal, said a major U.S. economic program for the region was working but needed 500 mln dlrs more than originally planned. In a report to Congress, he called for immediate approval of 300 mln dlrs in new 1987 economic aid for four Central American democracies and eventual full-funding of a total economic program costing 8.9 billion dlrs through 1992. The report, mandated by Congress, explains how the administration intends to carry out the recommendations of the Reagan-appointed Kissinger Commission, which in 1984 developed a blueprint for U.S. policy in the region that was meant to offset Reagan's military aid program for Nicaraguan rebels. The commission, headed by former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, had proposed a 8.4 billion dlr program through 1989. "The Soviet Union and its allies have provided the Sandinista regime military hardware and sufficient economic aid to keep Nicaragua's failed economy afloat," Reagan said. Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams, who briefed reporters, said the administration will not try to link approval of military aid for the rebels, known as contras, with the vastly more popular economic package for the region, as some Republican leaders in Congress have suggested. He also expressed optimism that despite the Iran-contra scandal, Congress would approve this year's final 40 mln dlr allotment in military aid for the rebels, who are fighting Managua's leftist Sandinista government. Abrams admitted the administration would have its toughest fight in the Democratic-controlled House, but said he believed a majority of the Senate -- led by Democrats for the first time in six years -- would back the military request. Reuter 
GM'S <GM> PONTIAC HAS INTEREST RATE INCENTIVES

General Motors Corp said its Pontiac Division has established an interest rate support incentive program, effective immediately, as an alternative to its current option bonus program. The company said qualified buyers of Pontiacs may now select special finance rates of 3.9 pct on 24-month contracts, 7.9 pct on 36-month contracts, 8.9 pct on 48-mopnth contracts or 9.9 pct on 60-month contracts. The program is scheduled to expire April 30. Under the option bonus program, which is also scheduled to expire April 30, buyers receive cash bonuses on the purchase of Pontiacs equipped with option group packages, with the amount depending on the option level on each vehicle. The company said the special interst rate program applies to ann new 1986 and 1987 Pontiacs sold from dealer stock and delivered to customers during the program period. A customer may choose only one program, it said. Reuter 
PAR PHARMACEUTICAL <PARP> SEEKS NYSE LISTING

Par Pharmaceutical Inc said it has been cleared by New York Stock Exchange authorities to apply for NYSE listing and expected to be listed by April or May. The company's stock is now traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
VENEZUELA SETS FOREIGN DEBT TARGETS

Venezuela plans to have a public sector foreign debt of 26.5 billion dlrs by early 1989 when the present government of President Jaime Lusinchi ends its term, public finances director Jorge Marcano said. He said the target, which compares with around 24.5 billion dlrs now and 29 billion at end 1983, is considered a manageable amount which will assist in development plans. The government last week reached agreement with its 13-bank advisory committee to reprogramme its 12-1/2 year rescheduling accord over 14 years with the interest margin lowered to 7/8 pct over London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) from 1-1/8 pct. In an interview with El Universal newspaper, Marcano said he thought U.S. Government pressure on banks had more to do with the unexpectedly speedy agreement than Brazil's decision to suspend interest payments. "I think what speeded an agreement was the attitude of the U.S. Government, which urged several major banks to soften their position in various debt renegotiations. The Brazil announcement came later," he said. Bankers noted Citibank had held up an agreement with Chile, objecting to proposals for delayed interest payments. A pact with Chile, with a one pct spread, came a day before Venezuela's. Marcano said a telex sent to Venezuela's 450 creditors seeks support for the government's foreign borrowing plans, which are aimed at aluminium, steel and iron ore projects. "We cannot rule out a trip to financial centres to explain the new agreement and present the financing programmes we have," he said, adding he hoped to restore credit ratings of the 1970s. Lusinchi said on Monday the government will limit foreign borrowing, which would come from banks and multilateral agencies, to 50 pct of interest and principal paid in the next two years. According to the restructured accord, this would work out at around 2.5 billion dlrs. REUTER 
DOW CHEMICAL CO <DOW> UNIT INCREASES PRICES

The Dow Chemical Co said its Engineering Thermoplastics Department will increase the selling prices of standard grades of MAGNUM ABS resins by three cts per pound. It also announced an increase of five cts per pound for performance grades of the resins. Both increases are effective April 1, 1987. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves, economists said. They expect it to supply the reserves indirectly by arranging around 1.5 of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged 6.22 pct yesterday, opened at six pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY AIDE WARNS ON INFLATION

Thomas Berger, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, said that a further drop in the exchange value of the dollar could cause prices to go up and trigger inflation. He told a meeting of the President's Export Council that the Japanese and the Germans have cut their profit margins to reflect recent drops in the dollar, so prices have remained much the same. But he added that if the dollar dropped further there could be inflation in the United States. Berger also said that a further devalued dollar may cause economic depressions in some U.S. trading partners, and that would not be in America's interest because it would close those markets to U.S. goods. Reuter 
U.S. PRESENTS MOSCOW WITH DRAFT MISSILE TREATY

The United States today handed Soviet arms negotiators a draft treaty which would eliminate all superpower medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe and slash such weapons elsewhere to 100 warheads on each side. Maynard Glitman, who heads the American team discussing medium-range nuclear forces, told reporters the document, "a full treaty text," was now on the negotiating table. The proposal responds to a new Soviet offer to abolish "Euromissiles" and cut sharply medium-range nuclear forces elsewhere announced by Mikhail Gorbachev last Saturday. The developments have been described by many disarmament experts as the first real opening for a superpower accord since they resumed arms control talks in March 1985. Glitman presented the draft treaty during a one and a half hour meeting at the American diplomatic mission with the Soviet team on medium-range missiles headed by Lem Masterkov. He told reporters: "It is a complete document. It has to be because we want precision. We don't want any ambiguities." The draft called for elimination - removal and destruction - of all superpower medium-range missiles in Europe over five years and reduction elsewhere during that period to 100 atomic warheads on each side, Glitman added. In Europe, this includes 270 Soviet triple-warhead SS-20's and 316 single-warhead U.S. Pershing-2 and cruise missiles. Reuter 
U.S. SENATOR TO PROPOSE 0/92 FOR 1987 CROPS

Sen. Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn., said he intended to offer legislation that would allow 1987 producers of wheat, feedgrains, cotton and rice to receive at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments, regardless of how much they planted. Boschwitz told the Senate Agriculture Committee that applying the so-called 0/92 provision to 1987 crops was supported by the Reagan administration and would save approximately 500 mln dlrs, including 266 mln dlrs in corn payments, 90 mln dlrs in wheat and 30 mln dlrs in cotton. The Minnesota senator said he might offer the bill on the Senate floor or in a conference committee with the House of Representatives in the event a similar bill before the House Agriculture Committee is approved by that body. Boschwitz told Reuters that neither he nor the U.S. Agriculture Department had decided whether or how deficiency payments should be guaranteed to farmers who might choose not to plant under the decoupling scheme. If payments are not set in advance under decoupling, market prices conceivably could rise, thereby leading to diminished deficiency payments. Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., said he wanted to go to conference with the House as soon as possible on the issue, but would have to study the matter further before deciding how he would vote on it. Reuter 
GATT TO RULE ON U.S. CUSTOMS USER FEE DISPUTE

The world trade body GATT has decided to set up an arbitration panel to rule on objections by Canada and the European Community to a customs user fee imposed by the U.S. Government, a GATT spokesman said. Canada and the EC told a GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) council meeting that the fee, which imposes a tax on an ad valorem basis on imports as of December 1, 1986, is illegal under GATT rules. U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels said the fee, imposed by the U.S. To help cover customs expenditure as part of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, does not breach GATT rules and is similar to fees charged by many other countries. Samuels suggested that a working party be set up to examine the dispute, instead of a panel empowered to rule on it. In another development, Hong Kong, supported by a large number of developing countries, attacked the "textile and apparel trade act of 1987" introduced in the U.S. Congress last February 19. Hong Kong representative Michael Cartland said the bill is "blatantly protectionist." He added there is "almost nothing about the bill which could be regarded as in any way consistent with either the GATT or the Multi-Fibre Arrangement (MFA)." If the bill were to be passed by Congress, Cartland said "it would forestall any attempt to negotiate liberalisation of world trade in textiles." GATT's council also decided to set up a working party to study China's application for full GATT membership. The group is due to report to the next GATT council meeting on April 15. Reuter 
ENERGY/CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCTION

Drilling for oil in California is likely to continue at last year's sharply reduced levels despite recent gains in crude oil prices, industry analysts said. Because much of the crude oil in California fields is thick, heavy and expensive to extract, oil prices would have to increase to near 1985's levels before any significant recovery is seen in drilling, they said. "Companies will probably only drill their best prospects," said John Curti, an analyst with Birr Wilson Securities Inc. Few new wells now are being drilled. Only 33 rigs, about one-quarter of the total available, were drilling for oil onshore in California last week, compared to about 70 last year, said Bill Bolster of Munger Oil Information Services, which tracks California drilling activity. "It's in the dregs right now," said Bolster of the state's drilling activity. Current prices are not enough to justify increased drilling, said Ed Malmgreen of the California Independent Producers Association. While an Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries pact to curb production boosted oil prices early this year, prices eventually fell. Prices for California's marker grade, Line 63 blend, have slumped about 20 pct in the last month to 14 dlrs from a high of about 17 dlrs. More than half of California's oil comes from stripper wells, those producing less than 10 barrels a day, and that much of that oil costs between 18 and 25 dlrs a barrel to extract, Malmgreen said. "It's not unusual for a stripper well to cost 18 dlrs," Malmgreen said. Many stripper wells along the southern California coast produce eight times as much water as crude oil, and inland wells frequently require the use of steam injection to spur extraction of the thick, heavy oil, he said. The outlook for future production in California is clouded by a lack of exploratory drilling now, analysts said. In the heart of California's oil patch, Kern County, which produces about two-thirds of the state's oil, exploratory drilling has slowed to a crawl. Only 55 exploratory wells were drilled in Kern County in 1986, compared to 137 in 1985, according to David Mitchell of the state energy commission. So far this year only five exploratory wells have been drilled. "I don't think they'll even get to what they did last year," Mitchell said. No pickup in exploratory drilling is likely for the rest of the decade, Mitchell said. Along with the fall in drilling has come a decrease in the number of producing wells and overall production. Between February and October of 1986, the number of producing oil wells in California fell 14 pct to 43,521 from more than 50,000, said Bill Guerard of the California Energy Commission. In line with that decrease, California's crude oil output fell about 10 pct last year due to low oil prices and is expected to remain at that lower level, analysts said. Between February and October 1986, California's crude oil production slipped from an all-time high of 1.185 mln barrels per day to 1.066 mln bpd, Guerard said. Total estimated crude oil production in California for 1986 was 408 mln bbls, compared with 424 mln bbls in 1985 and 405 mln bbl in 1983, according to the California Department of Conservation. "Production in 1987 will probably hold around 1986 levels," Guerard said. Reuter 
REAGAN DENOUNCES REPORTS OF WIFE'S ROLE

President Reagan angrily denounced press reports that his wife, Nancy, is running the government as "despicable fiction." He said the reports had "touched a nerve." Reagan made the comments at a photo session with William Webster, his nominee as head of the Central Intelligence Agency. The president and Mrs Reagan celebrate their 35th wedding anniversary today as Reagan prepares to make an address to the nation on the Iran-contra scandal tonight. When a reporter asked about Mrs Reagan's role in government, Reagan replied: "I think this is being bandied by the press. That is fiction and I think it is despicable fiction. And a lot of people ought to be ashamed of themselves." Pressed for further comment, Reagan said, "The idea that she is involved in governmental decisions and so forth... and being a kind of a dragon lady, there is nothing to that." Reagan flatly denied that that his wife had had a role in the departure from the White House last Friday of Reagan's chief of staff, Donald Regan, as has been widely reported. Regan's successor, former senator Howard Baker, was in the room as Reagan made his comments. Reuter 
STANDARD OIL <SRD> IN TEXAS NATURAL GAS FIND

Standard Oil Co said the Friendswood Development Number One well in the Fostoria or Deep Wilcox Field of Montgomery County, Texas, flowed 4,500,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day from depths of 14,252 to 14,486 feet through a 14/64 inch choke. It said it has contracted for Perry Gas Cos Inc to purchase natural gas from the well, and Perry will build a four-inch gathering pipeline to connect to Natural Gas Pipeline Co's transmission line. Reuter 
ARGENTINA'S CREDITORS SAID DIVIDED OVER DEBT ISSUE

Central Bank director Daniel Marx said Argentina's creditor banks were divided on the country's request for rescheduling its foreign debt. "There are difficulties (among the banks) to reach an agreement and find a unanimous decision," Marx told a local radio station in a telephone interview from New York. Argentina's great efforts to comply with obligations on its 50 billion dlr foreign debt should be met by a reduction in interest rates on the part of the creditor banks, he said. Marx is in New York with Argentina's debt negotiating team holding talks with the creditor banks' steering committee. Marx said the talks should not drag on. "If Venezuela and Mexico have concluded their negotiations, we want to end (ours) in a reasonable manner and as soon as possible," he said. Economy ministry sources said the steering committee was expected today to make a counter-proposal not unlike that made by Treasury Secretary Mario Brodersohn at the start of the talks between the two parties. Argentina is seeking a 2.15 billion dlr loan to meet four pct growth targets in 1987. It also wants lower interest rates on its foreign debt. The United States said last week it would support a 500 mln dlr bridging loan for Argentina. REUTER 
U.S. SENATE PANEL MAKES CONSERVATION EXEMPTION

The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee approved a measure that would exempt farmers who planted alfalfa or other multiyear grasses and legumes between 1981 and 1985 from a federal conservation requirement. Sen. Edward Zorinsky, D-Neb., said his bill would restore equity under federal sodbuster rules, which currently deny farm program benefits to farmers who, between 1981 and 1985, planted alfalfa and other multiyear grasses and legumes without interrupting the plantings with a row crop. An official from a leading conservation group, who asked not to be identified, said the panel's move was "an unfortunate first action" because it could lead to the exemption of potentially millions of acres from the sod buster regulations, established under the 1985 farm bill. Reuter 
TEXAS EASTERN <TET> BUYS PETROLEUM TERMINAL

Texas Eastern Corp said it has completed the purchase of an idle petroleum products terminal near Norris City, Ill., from <Growmark Inc> for undisclosed terms and will reopen it in September after remodeling. The company said the terminal will handle leaded and unleaded regular gasolines, number two fuel oil, ethanol and natural gasoline. Reuter 
STERLING IN TEXAS GAS AND OIL DISCOVERY

<Sterling Investment Group> said it successfully drilled and completed a significant development well 65 miles southwest of Houston, Texas. The well has a choke of 11/64 of an inch and is 10,097 feet deep. The well initially tested at a maximum daily flow rate of two mln cubic feet of gas and 304 barrels of condensate. Participants in the new well, along with Sterling, are Trafalgar House Ltd of the U.K. and <Texstar NOrth America Inc.> Reuter 
BLINDER INTERNATIONAL <BINLC> HAS NASD EXCEPTION

Blinder International Enterprises Inc said its common stock will continue to be quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers' NASDAQ system due to an exception pending the resolution of a dispute between the NASD and Blinder on Blinder's qualifications for continued NASDAQ quotation. The company said the NASD has alleged that Blinder no longer meets listing criteria but Blinder said it feels it can resolve the issues in dispute. It said if it cannot resolve the issues by April 27 or if it fails to meet conditions imposed by the NASD, it will be delisted. Reuter 
ATT <T> OFFERS USA DIRECT SERVICE IN DENMARK

American Telephone and Telegraph Co said it is offering its USA Direct service in Denmark. The service allows callers in Denmark to reach an ATT operator in the United States by dialing a single telephone number, 0430-0010, ATT said. USA Direct is now available in 26 countries, including the United Kingdom, France and Australia, the company added. Reuter 
GATT SETS UP DISPUTE PANEL ON CANADIAN HERRING

The ruling GATT Council set up a formal dispute panel to examine a U.S. Complaint that a Canadian law prohibiting export of unprocessed herring and salmon was discriminatory. David Wood, official spokesman of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), told a news briefing the decision was taken after bilateral consultations failed to resolve the row. U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels charged during the Council debate that Canada was trying to preserve domestic jobs by insisting that herring and salmon be processed at home. Robert White, Canada's deputy chief of delegation, replied the law was in line with GATT rules, and was for conservations reasons. But he agreed to setting up the dispute panel. Reuter 
RESOURCE EXPLORATION <REXI> IN DRILLING PACT

Resource Exploration Inc said it has agreed to let <Langasco Energy Corp> drill 50 oil and natural gas wells on its Clinton Sandstone formation within its Tuscarawas and Harrison County, Ohio area of operation. Resource said it would receive a cash payment and an overriding royalty interest on oil and gas production from wells drilled on the property. Resource said gas produced from the property will be transported through its existing pipeline. Also, Resource said it will provide service work to complete the wells and it will operate the wells after they are completed. Reuter 
TEXAS OIL REGULATOR CALLS FOR STATE TAX BREAKS

Texas Railroad Commissioner James Nugent, saying that the ailing oilpatch cannot wait for Congress to act, today urged Texas state lawmakers to adopt incentives to find new oil reserves and to exempt severance taxes on oil produced from stripper wells. Nugent said in a speech to the Texas house of representatives that the state must take the initiative in molding U.S. energy policy and finding new ways to assist troubled oil producers. His proposal to revitalize Texas' oil industry would exempt stripper wells that produce 10 barrels of oil or less each day from the state's 4.6 pct severance tax. He said that the majority of Texas' oil wells fall within the stripper well category and a price swing of two to three dlrs a barrel can be crucial in determining if the well remains in production. Nugent also called for state lawmakers to exempt new wildcat wells from the state severance tax for up to five years as a financial incentive to explore for new oil reserves. Secondary and tertiary oil production, expensive methods of production that inject water or gas into the ground to recover oil, should also be exempted from the severance tax, Nugent said. His plan would exempt existing secondary and tertiary wells that produce at a rate of less than three barrels a day for three years, or until the price of oil reaches $25 a barrel. "We've been sitting back and waiting on two federal administrations to develop a coherent energy policy for the nation to follow. I say we have waited long enough," Nugent said. "In other words, let's tell Washington to either lead, follow, or get out of the way." Nugent said that the financial losses to the state treasury by exempting marginal oil production from state severance taxes would be more than made up by stimulating new business for the oil supply and service industry. Reuter 
SPEAKES SAYS HE, REAGAN MISLED PUBLIC UNWITTINGLY

Former White House spokesman Larry Speakes said he and President Reagan misled the public unintentionally on the Iran arms scandal because they themselves were misled by others. In a televised interview, Speakes was contrasting the defensive, much-criticized efforts Reagan made in early attempts to cool the scandal with the dynamic speech he expected when the president addressed the nation tonight. "When we went into those press conferences and that nationwide address in November right after the (Iran) story broke, the president did not have the proper information," Speakes said. "And that's why we were misled. And consequently, the president and I misled the public, to a certain extent." "We were badly served by the people that were involved in the Iranian crisis and running the show." Asked whom he meant, Speakes said former National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane; McFarlane successor John Poindexter; and then-National Security Council aide Oliver North. Speakes said those three had prepared a false chronology of events "that misled us into thinking that we had all the facts ..." McFarlane has said that he, North and Poindexter had doctored a White House chronology to obscure and minimize Reagan's role in the arms sales. He said they did that as part of an effort to prepare the president for a November 19 news conference. Reuter 
RENEWAL OF U.S./USSR GRAIN PACT SAID UNCERTAIN

Prospects for renewal of the five-year U.S./USSR grains agreement are uncertain at this point, a Soviet trade official told Reuters. The current trade imbalance between the United States and the Soviet Union, high U.S. commodity prices, and increased world grain production make a renewal of the supply agreement next year less certain, Albert Melnikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet Union, said in an interview. The current agreement expires on Sept 30, 1988. Melnikov said that world grain markets are different than when the first agreement was signed in 1975. Statements from both U.S. and Soviet officials have indicate that a long term grains agreement might not be as attractive for both sides as it once was. "We have had one agreement. We have had a second agreement, but with the second agreement we've had difficulties with prices," Melnikov said. "I cannot give you any forecasts in response to the future about the agreement.... I do not want to speculate on what will happen after Sept 30, 1988," he said. Melnikov noted that he has seen no indications from Soviet government officials that they would be pushing for a renewal of the agreement. "The situation is different in comparison to three, five or ten years ago ... We can produce more," he said. Reuter 
REAGAN IRAN SPEECH SAID TO ADMIT NEED FOR CHANGE

President Reagan, fighting to recover politically from the Iran-contra scandal, plans to acknowledge in a critical speech to the nation tonight he needs to change his ways, administration officials said. "It will be a forward-looking speech in which he will say he accepts the need for change," said an official who asked not to be identified. "I think the president wants to give his side of the story." The official said Reagan would tell the public what he is doing to set things right in the wake of last week's scorching Tower commission report on the origins of the scandal. It is not clear whether Reagan will heed the advice of many of his political allies and acknowledge that his Iran policy was wrong and he personally made some mistakes. Asked at his daily news briefing if the president would say he erred, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters, "His views are intensely personal and I won't give you any advance on what he intends to say in that area." He said the speech would be 12 or 13 minutes in length and that Reagan would "look beyond the horizon to a revitalized White House that will pursue an active foreign policy." "The president will discuss the Tower board report and its recommendations. He'll focus on changes he's making in the structure of the NSC (National Security Council) and his goals for the next two years," the spokesman said. To date, Reagan has defended his decision to sell arms to Iran and conceded only there were errors in implementation. Senate Republican leader Robert Dole said tonight's speech might be Reagan's last chance to repair his presidency. "It's about the ninth inning ... he has to try and set us on another course. It's hard to do that, he probably won't be able to do it," Dole told reporters. Reuter 
IRVINE SENSORS <IRSN> COMPLETES UNIT OFFERING

Irvine Sensors Corp said it completed a public offering of 1.25 mln units, consisting of two shares of common stock and one warrant to purchase an additional share. The units were sold at a price of 1.60 dlrs each, Irvine Sensors said, adding, the units will trade under the NASDAQ symbol "IRSNU" and the new warrants under the symbol "IRSNW." Reuter 
REAGAN CHANGES WHITE HOUSE LAWYERS

President Reagan formally accepted the resignation of White House counsel Peter Wallison and named Arthur Culvahouse, an associate of new White House chief Howard Baker, to replace him. Wallison, who has handled White House legal affairs for the past year, was closely identified with former chief of staff Donald Regan and his departure had been expected. His resignation, which Reagan accepted "with deep regret," is effective on March 20. Culvahouse, a 38-year old Tennessee native who currently practices law in Washington, was Baker's legislative assistant when the new chief of staff was Senate Republican leader. Reuter 
MORE SOVIET GRAIN BUYING FROM U.S. TIED TO PRICE

Whether the Soviet Union will fulfill its buying obligations under the U.S./USSR grains agreement depends entirely on the United States, a Soviet trade official told Reuters. "How can I tell that we are ready to fulfill the agreement if the United States does not want to offer us grain at competitive prices?" said Albert Melnikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet Union to the United States. "We are in the market for grains, but it is up to the United States to be the seller ... to offer Soviets competitive prices," he said in an interview. Melnikov said that the United States has not lived up the agreement by failing to make available to Moscow U.S. grain at prevailing market prices. "We are being accused of not implementing this agreement. We do not consider we are at fault," Melnikov said. Article I in the agreement states that "purchases/sales of commodities under this Agreement will be made at the market price prevailing for these products at the time of purchase/sale and in accordance with normal commercial terms." "The United States should supply to the Soviet Union definite quantities of grain at competitive prices ... Is the United States ready to supply this?" he said. The Soviet official said that near-term corn demand has been met by the recent Soviet purchases of U.S. corn, which he confirmed at 1.5 mln tonnes, but said that if U.S. corn prices remain competitive, the Soviets will buy more if they need it. Wheat buying, however, is a different story, Melnikov said. "If the United States is interested in selling its wheat, then they must offer competitive prices, and it's up to the United States to decide how these competitive prices will be offered," he said. Last year's U.S. offer of subsidized wheat to the Soviets was rejected because of an insufficient subsidy, Melnikov said. He said that at the time of the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy offer, U.S. wheat prices were 26 dlrs over world levels. Reuter 
BIOSPHERICS INC <BINC> QUOTES TO BE LISTED

Biospherics Inc said its common stock quotations will appear in the NASDAQ stock table published in more than 100 newspapers. The company said higher trading volume is expected from the new listing. Previously, Biospherics was listed only in the regional securities sections in the Washington Post and Baltimore Sun. Reuter 
PERU SUGAR HARVEST SEEN LOWER -- USDA

Sugar production in Peru for the 1986/87 season has been revised to 593,000 tonnes (raw value), down 10 pct from the previous forecast and 21 pct below the 1985/86 harvest, the U.S. Agriculture Department said in its World Production and Trade Report. It said while rains in the northern mountain region are improving the supply of irrigation water, the major benefits will not occur until the 1987/88 season. Reuter 
AMERICAN FARM BUREAU OPPOSES FARM BILL CHANGES

The directors of the American Farm Bureau, the nation's largest farm organization, voted Tuesday to urge Congress to leave the 1985 farm bill in place without alterations. "We are solidly opposed to opening up the 1985 farm bill," said Dean Kleckner, president. "The current farm bill has been in place for just a little over a year and in our judgment there is more to be gained at the present time from maintaining the legislation. "Several independent studies ... indicate the 1985 farm bill is better on balance than any of the alternatives being advanced," Kleckner said. The Farm Bureau also urged Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng to adjust the loan rate for 1987 crop soybeans as much as he deems possible under the farm bill to keep soybeans competitive in the world market. A Farm Bureau proposal suggests that producers should be eligible for supplemental payments in the form of PIK certificates for the difference between 5.02 dlrs a bushel and the new loan rate. The organization also urged Lyng to authorize deficiency payments to farmers who were unable to plant 1987 winter wheat because of adverse weather. Reuter 
AUSTRALIA SELLS BONDS IN TWO TRANCHES

The Commonwealth of Australia is offering in the Yankee bond market 400 mln dlrs of bonds in two tranches, said lead manager Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. A 250 mln dlr issue of bonds due 1997 was given a 7-5/8 pct coupon and was priced at 99.25 to yield 7.73 pct, or 60.5 basis points more than comparable Treasury securities. A companion 150 mln dlr offering of 30-year bonds was given an 8-3/8 pct coupon and was priced at 99.875 to yield 8.386 pct, or 82.5 basis points over Treasuries. Both tranches are non-callable for life. Moody's rates the bonds Aa-1 and S and P rates them AA-plus. Reuter 
REAGAN TO VISIT ROME, BERLIN DURING SUMMIT TRIP

President Reagan will visit Rome and West Berlin during a trip to Europe in June to attend the Venice summit meeting of the major industrialized countries, the White House said. The announcement said Reagan and Nancy Reagan would be in Rome from June 3 to 6 as the guests of President Francesco Cossiga and would have an audience with Pope John Paul II on June 6. After the June 8-10 summit, Reagan will travel to West Berlin on June 12 to participate in the city's 750th anniversary and will meet West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in Bonn before returning home the same day. Reuter 
YEUTTER SEEKS STRONGER TAIWAN, S.KOREA CURRENCIES

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he hoped the U.S. dollar would continue to decline in relation to the currencies of Taiwan and South Korea as a way to improve the U.S. trade picture. Testifying before the House Appropriations subcommittee which must approve his agency's 1988 budget, he said, "In my judgment economic factors justify a continued decline." Asked by a committee member if he expected a further decline, and how much, Yeutter said the Taiwan and South Korean currencies should be adjusted to reflect "positive factors" in their economies. Reuter 
CHINA SUGAR OUTPUT SEEN LOWER -- USDA

China's 1986/87 sugar crop has been revised to 5.26 mln tonnes (raw value), down four pct from the previous forecast and five pct below the previous season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its World Production and Trade Report, the department attributed the decline to relatively poor profitability of sugar, causing harvested area of cane and beets to decline seven pct from 1985/86. Beet sugar production for 1986/87 is now estimated at 837,000 tonnes, five pct less than earlier forecast and down five pct from the previous season, while cane output is projected at 4.423 mln tonnes, down four pct from previously forecast and five pct below the previous season, it said. Reuter 
UAW, AMC <AMO> SET NEW LABOR TALKS

The United Auto Workers and American Motors Corp agreed to resume talks on a new labor contract for the company's threatened Kenosha, Wisc. assembly plant despite a breakdown in talks last weekend, UAW vice-president Marc Stepp said. Stepp told reporters that issues which caused the talks to break off are being discussed between the two sides and that a main table bargaining session has been scheduled Friday in Milwaukee. France's Regie Nationale des Usines Renault has a controlling stake in American Motors. Stepp said the union intends "to exert full efforts" to reach an agreement that would keep the plant in operation past 1989, when AMC has said production will end unless the UAW grants concessions on labor costs. The UAW leader said the company and the union agreed in principle in 1985 to pattern a future contract covering some 6,000 Kenosha workers after lower-cost UAW contracts covering Mazda Motor Corp's new U.S. plant in Michigan and the New United Motor plant in California operated by Toyota. Stepp said there is such deep hostility between the company and union locals in Milwaukee and Kenosha that communication between them is very difficult. But he said it is possible to reach agreement on a new contract to save the jobs of UAW members at AMC's Wisconsin operations despite the impasse. AMC has said it will resume talks, but only for 24 hours to ascertain whether the union was willing to agree to the concessions it wants. The Kenosha plant builds AMC's Renault cars and a line of Chrysler Corp <C> vehicles under a contract assembly deal. Reuter 
POLLARD SENTENCED TO LIFE IN PRISON IN SPY CASE

Confessed spy Jonathan Pollard was sentenced today to life in prison for passing thousands of pages of top-secret U.S. military documents to Israel. Pollard, a former Navy intelligence analyst, was sentenced for his role in what prosecutors described as one of the most serious breaches of security in U.S. history. Pollard, a 32-year-old American Jew, claimed he was acting out of concern for Israel's safety and the belief that U.S. officials were withholding intelligence from Israel. Reuter 
KAISER ALUMINUM <KLU> RAISES PRODUCT PRICES

Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corp said it is increasing prices for a broad range of common alloy coil, flat sheet and plate products. The company said prices to distributors and direct customers on shipments of new orders placed March 4 and after will be increased by four to eight cts per lb. Kaiser said the increases are due to increased demand and the need to set prices relative to the cost of primary aluminum. Reuter 
U.S./USSR TRADE IMBALANCE CITED AS PROBLEM

U.S. purchases of Soviet products must increase before the Soviet Union will buy more U.S. goods, a Soviet trade official told Reuters. "American exports (to the Soviet Union) depend on Soviet exports to the United States," said Albert Melknikov, deputy trade representative of the Soviet Union to the United States. "One should not forget that it is impossible only to buy from the United States. We must be able to sell our products to the United States as well," he said in an interview. The Soviet trade deficit with the United States totalled around two billion dlrs in 1985, Melnikov said. Reuter 
YEUTTER PLANS TRADE TRIP TO CHINA THIS SUMMER

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he plans a July trip to China to discuss trade issues including China's admission to the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade. Yeutter told a congressional hearing it was possible China could be a member of GATT before the end of the year. "They are making major moves to becoming a full scale member of the world economy," he told the House Appropriations subcommittee which oversees his agency's budget. Depending on how the negotiations go on the terms of China's GATT membership, Yeutter said he could put the final touches on the U.S. part of the agreement during his trip. The admission of China to GATT, which is the multinational group of nations which negotiates international rules on trade, would offer both potential export markets and potential competition for U.S. industries, he said. "That has a lot of potential as well as risks for U.S. business," Yeutter said. "I think China will develop into a fine market for us," he added. Reuter 
ISRAEL TENDERS TONIGHT FOR CORN AND/OR SORGHUM

Israel will tender overnight for 33,000 long tons of U.S. sorghum and/or 22,000 long tons of U.S. corn for April shipment, private export sources said. Reuter 
U.S. CABINET COUNCIL SET TO MULL FARM ISSUES

The Reagan administration's cabinet-level Economic Policy Council is scheduled to meet Friday to discuss, among other issues, the status of agricultural legislation, administration officials said. The officials said discussion of a U.S. Agriculture Department wheat export subsidy to the Soviet Union was not on the agenda. Matters not on the agenda, however, can be brought before the council, the officials said. Grain trade officials have speculated that USDA would make a wheat export enhancement offer to Moscow, but USDA officials have said the matter is not under active consideration. USDA today transmitted to Congress a package of legislative proposals, including bills that would cut target prices and speed up loan rate reductions. Reuter 
U.S. REAFFIRMS OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX PLAN

A meeting among government agencies today reaffirmed the strong opposition of the United States to a proposed new tax on vegetable oils and fats in the European Community, U.S. trade officials said. Representatives of the major government agencies agreed at a trade policy review group meeting, which includes officials of the deputy secretary rank, to continue diplomatic pressure on EC member states. "We (all agencies) are together on this," said one U.S. trade official. One source said the U.S. would continue to make clear to member states and to the EC commission that if Brussels proceeds with the vegetable oils tax "there will be a great cost." U.S. officials said no formal list of European products on which the U.S. might retaliate, has yet been drawn up. "I don't think we're at that point yet," said one trade official, adding that the EC has only begun deliberations on its farm price package. Suzanne Early, assistant trade representative, told Reuters the interagency meeting was to discuss U.S. strategy on the vegetable oils issue. Asked about retaliation, she said "sometimes its better not to be specific." U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter Monday warned another major transatlantic trade row will develop if the EC proceeds with the vegetable oils tax. Reuter 
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK

Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 3.4 mln barrels in the week ended Feb 27 to 128.4 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department of Energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 100,000 barrels in the week to 251.5 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks were up 3.2 mln barrels to 333.0 mln. The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 2.2 mln barrels to 37.9 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) were up 700,000 barrels to 516.5 mln. The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks were unchanged at 1,575.1 mln barrels, it said. Reuter 
KEMP URGES REAGAN TO OPPOSE STOCK TAX

Rep. Jack Kemp, a New York Republican, urged President Reagan to oppose any legislation to impose a tax on stock transactions. In a statement Kemp called the tax "a money grab to permit Democrats to begin another government spending spree." "I call upon President Reagan to signal immediately that he will veto any tax increase on stock transfers," Kemp said. He added that the tax would punish the 50 million stockholders. House Speaker James Wright, a Texas Democrat, has asked congressional tax analysts to look at a 0.25 to 0.5 pct tax on stock trades along with other tax proposals to help reduce the federal budget deficit. Reuter 
YEUTTER CONCERNED ABOUT U.S. EXPORT PICTURE

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said he expects imports to fall soon but he was concerned about the lack of improvement in U.S. exports given the dollar's decline in the last 18 months. "I'm convinced we're about to see an improvement on the import side. I'm more concerned about the export side," he told a House Appropriations subcommittee. Part of the blame goes on other countries which have not generated the economic growth to increase demand for U.S. goods and part to some U.S. companies which are not generating competitive exports, he said. Reuter 
NYMEX OUTGOING CHAIRMAN SEES MAJOR CHANGES

Trading in energy futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange will change dramatically over the next five to 10 years as the market matures, according to outgoing chairman Michel Marks. "Energy futures trading is going through a tremendous period of transition that will last five to 10 years," Marks said, adding that volume will soar, international participation will increase, and activity of producing countries, major oil companies, and speculators will grow. Marks steps down as chairman after an nine-year tenure when board elections are held March 17. He will continue as chairman of a long-range planning committee at NYMEX. "The priority of the next 10 years is operational efficiency versus the last 10 years when it was new product development," said Marks. Marks said it is imperative for NYMEX, which is running out of trading space, to process greater volumes expeditiously in order to handle the growth in volumes and new contracts that are already planned. Marks said crude futures volume could more than double by the end of the decade to 250,000 contracts daily and combined products volume could soar to 100,000 contracts a day. Much of the increased activity will come from the international sector, according to Marks. "That's a huge growth area," he said, adding that it will run the gamut from foreign producer countries to foreign independent operators. He said it would be difficult to develop a futures contract based on an internationally traded crude although he previously said the exchange is exploring that possibility. "Trying to develop a futures contract in any other crude besides West Texas Intermediate will be a tough task" he said. Marks said it is more likely a futures contract based on an international product rather than an international crude will be developed since the products market is more diverse. He said previously the exchange is studying the possibility of developing a non-U.S. deliverable products contract. Other sources of growth for U.S. energy futures are the major oil companies, which already trade on the NYMEX, and institutional funds such as investment houses, pension funds, and insurance companies, Marks said. "The commodities markets have become financial markets and should pursue a partnership with financial intermediaries," Marks said. He said speculators will increase their share of the energy futures markets in the coming years from the current share of about 30 pct. Hedgers, as a result, will lose some of their 70 pct share. Reuter 
PHILIPPINE, ARGENTINE DEBT TALKS CONTINUE

The Philippines and its bank advisory committee completed a second day of talks on the country's request to reschedule 9.4 billion dlrs of debts, bankers said. They declined to disclose details of the negotiations, but said it would be unrealistic to expect an outcome until next week at the earliest. Talks with Argentina over 2.15 billion dlrs of new loans and a multi-year rescheduling also continued in New York, with the Citibank-led advisory committee making a counter-proposal to Argentina's original offer. Bankers remain hopeful that an agreement can be reached by the middle of the month. Reuter 
HOUSE TRADE BILL DRAFTING POSTPONED

The House Ways and Means trade subcommittee postponed until next week its opening session to start drafting major changes to U.S. trade laws, a committee aide said. The subcommittee had not yet completed the preparatory work to start writing the legislation, the aide said. Reuter 
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES

Southland Corp's Citgo Petrleum Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by one dlr a barrel, effective today. The increase brings Citgo's posted price for West Texas Intermediate to 17.00 dlrs a bbl. West Texas Sour is also now priced at 17.00 dlrs/bbl, and Light Louisiana South is posted at 17.35 dlrs/bbl. On February 25 Citgo lowered its crude postings 50 cts to 1.50 dlrs per bbl, and cut WTI one dlr to 16.00. Reuter 
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 2.1 pct in the four weeks ended February 27 to 16.39 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.05 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was down 2.1 pct in the period to 3.37 mln bpd from 3.44 mln a year earlier. Gasoline demand averaged 6.60 mln bpd, up 2.4 pct from 6.44 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.47 mln bpd, up 1.9 pct from 1.44 mln, the EIA said. Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mln bpd, down 8.7 pct from 9.18 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 4.11 mln bpd, up 36.9 pct from three mln, the EIA said. Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.21 mln bpd, up 2.2 pct from 12 mln a year earlier, it said. Year-to-date figures will not become available until March 26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987 becomes available, the agency said. Reuter 
GATT SETS UP PANEL ON CANADIAN HERRING, SALMON

The ruling GATT Council today set up a formal dispute panel to examine a U.S. complaint that a Canadian law prohibiting export of unprocessed herring and salmon was discriminatory. David Wood, official spokesman of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), told a news briefing the decision was taken after bilateral consultations failed to resolve the row. U.S. Ambassador Michael Samuels charged during the Council debate that Canada was trying to preserve domestic jobs by insisting that herring and salmon be processed at home. Robert White, Canada's deputy chief of delegation, replied the law was in line with GATT rules, and was for conservations reasons. But he agreed to setting up the dispute panel. Reuter 
REAGAN ADMITS IRAN ARMS OPERATION A MISTAKE

President Reagan, fighting to regain public confidence in the wake of the Iran arms scandal, admitted tonight that the clandestine operation wound up as an arms-for-hostages deal and, "It was a mistake." "When it came to managing the NSC (National Security Council) staff, let's face it, my style didn't match its previous track record," Reagan said in a television address to the American people. "I have already begun correcting this," he added in his prepared remarks. Reagan's speech, widely regarded as critical to his hopes of repairing his presidency, was his first detailed response to last week's scorching Tower commission report on the secret sale of arms to Iran and diversion of profits to U.S.-backed contra rebels in Nicaragua. Reagan said he had been silent on the scandal while he waited for the truth to come out and admitted, "I've paid a price for my silence in terms of your trust and confidence." He said that a few months ago, he told the American people he did not trade arms for hostages in the 18-month covert operation. "My heart and my best intentions still tell me that is true, but the facts and the evidence tell me it is not," Reagan said. "There are reasons why it happened, but no excuses. It was a mistake," he said. Reagan again said that the original Iran initiative was to develop relations with those who might assume leadership in a post-Khomeini government. "It's clear from the Board's report however that I let my personal concern for the hostages spill over into the geo-political strategy of reaching out to Iran. "I asked so many questions about the hostages' welfare that I didn't ask enough about the specifics of the total Iran plan," he said. The commission, headed by former Republican Sen. John Tower, said Reagan's "intense compassion" for Americans being held by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon had resulted in an unprofessional and unsatisfactory policy. It portrayed 76-year old Reagan as a man who did not know or care much about the wide-ranging, probably illegal activities of his National Security Council (NSC) staff, which hatched the operation. Reagan said he endorsed all of the Tower commission's recommendations about the running of the NSC, adding, "In fact, I'm going beyond its recommendations, so as to put the house in even better order." He noted that he had appointed former Senate Republican leader Howard Baker as his new chief of staff and said he hoped Baker would help him forge a new partnership with Congress, "especially on foreign and national security policies." He said his new national security adviser, Frank Carlucci, was rebuilding the national security staff "with proper management discipline." Reagan said that almost half the NSC professional staff now consisted of new people. He said that FBI Director William Webster, his new nominee to head the CIA, "understands the meaning of 'rule of law'". Reagan also announced that Tower had agreed to serve as a member of his Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, which acts as a watchdog on the nation's covert activities. But he said that he had issued a directive barring the NSC staff itself from undertaking covert operations -- "No ifs, ands, or buts." Tonight's speech was a far cry from Reagan's initial strong defense of his Iran policy. In a televised speech last November 13, Reagan called charges that he ransomed hostages and undercut the U.S. war on terrorism "utterly false." As recently as two months ago in his State of the Union speech, Reagan said that "serious mistakes were made" but defended the basic policy as one that had worthy goals. By contrast, tonight's speech had an apologetic tone that was a marked departure from Reagan's usual upbeat, confident demeanor. He said he took full responsibility for his own actions "and for those of my administration." "As angry as I may be about activities undertaken without my knowledge, I am still accountable for those activities. As disappointed as I may be in some who served me, I am still the one who must answer to the American people for this behavior," Reagan said. Reagan said the message that the nation should move on had come from Republicans and Democrats in Congress, from allies around the world -- "and if we're reading the signals right, even from the Soviets." His remark seemed to be a reference to a new Soviet willingness to reach an agreement on eliminating medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS IRAN POLICY RECORDS IMPROPERLY KEPT

President Reagan said improper record keeping of meetings and decisions made on the Iran arms initiative led to his failure to recollect whether he approved arms shipments by Israel before or after the fact. In a televised address to the American people Reagan said he is still upset that no-one kept proper records -- a complaint made by the Tower commission. The arms shipment was made in August of 1985 by Israel. "I did approve it; I just can't specifically say when," Reagan said. Reagan added: "Rest assured, there's plenty of record-keeping now going on at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue (the White House)." The timing of Reagan's approval of the Israeli shipment is important because it could determine whether the sale violated various laws, including the Arms Export Control Act. Reuter 
REAGAN SPEECH WINS MIXED REACTION FROM CONGRESS

Republicans in Congress hailed President Reagan's speech on the Iran arms scandal as candid and constructive while Democrats, who control both houses, said Reagan would now have to match his words with action. Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd (Democrat) of West Virginia said in a television interview he was heartened that Reagan had acknowledged some of his mistakes. "But one speech is not enough to rebuild trust." "President Reagan told the American people what they needed to hear, that mistakes were made and he made them," Senate Republican Leader Robert Dole of Kansas said. Reagan, responding to the Tower Commission report criticising his role in the Iran arms scandal, said for the first time the Iran arms policy, and not just its implementation, was a mistake and accepted responsibility for the diversion of profits to the Nicaraguan contra rebels. Senator Bill Bradley (Democrat) of New Jersey said the administration would "remain under a cloud" until several key figures in the scandal, including fired National Security Council (NSC) aide Oliver North and his boss Adm. John Poindexter, have told "the whole truth." Republicans and Democrats praised the appointment on Friday of former Senate Republican leader Howard Baker to replace Donald Regan as chief of staff, and the replacement of Poindexter with Frank Carlucci to head the NSC. Assistant House Republican Leader Trent Lott of Mississippi, said he believed Reagan took the right measure in admitting mistakes without apologising for them. Some House Democrats, including Speaker James Wright of Texas, said earlier they would delay their reaction until tomorrow in order to study the speech overnight and assess its impact. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - POLISH SANCTIONS

Poland says U.S. Sanctions have cost its economy 15 billion dlrs and has made clear it wants Washington to take a lead in repairing the damage after lifting remaining restrictions two weeks ago. Polish officials are unable to provide a precise breakdown of the figure, saying it takes into account a number of hypothetical losses. Some of them are "too sophisticated to convert into financial terms," one banking source said. But Western economic experts say the effect of sanctions is impossible to calculate. They say it is blurred by the poor performance of Poland's economy, and dismiss the 15 billion dlr figure as illusory. "Sanctions have provided a very useful excuse for under- achieving. They did have a bad effect, yes, but they only contributed to largely internal, economic problems," one said. The U.S. Imposed the measures and withdrew Most Favoured Nation (MFN) trading status from Poland in 1982 in retaliation for suppression of the Solidarity free trade union under martial law. The estimated cost to the Polish economy was originally devised several years ago by the Institute of National Economy, an offshoot of the central planning commission. According to one Western envoy, an expert on Polish economic affairs, it extrapolated 1979 information on growth trends in trade with the United States, as well as increases in credits from Western commercial and government lenders. But the calculations were based on a time when trade was booming and credits still flowed freely, he said, dismissing the estimate as "a theoretical projection based on a high point, which has no real scientific evaluation." A foreign trade ministry official said Polish exports to the U.S. In the late 1970s averaged around 400 mln dlrs annually and had fallen by half since the sanctions were imposed. Imports have suffered, slumping from around 800 mln dlrs to 200 mln, as credits ran out. Poland has a dwindling trade surplus with the West. Last year it was one billion dlrs against a targeted 1.6 billion, official figures show. Acknowledging that sanctions have lost Poland important U.S. Markets -- including agricultural equipment, textiles, chemicals and some foodstuffs -- Western economists say credits dried up for economic not political reasons. "Poland is accusing the West of letting economic relations deteriorate for political reasons," said one expert. "It's an illusion based on a misunderstanding of Western economy." "There's a limit to how much you can go on giving someone who has no hope of repaying it," another said, adding that Poland had benefited from a global phenomenon of easy credits in the 1970s which were no longer today's reality. Describing the 15 billion dlr assessment as "nebulous," one diplomat said it also included losses of hypothetical orders and setbacks to Polish research through the curbing of scientific links and exchanges. Western officials say the lifting of sanctions and new MFN status will have little impact on Poland, which has a hard currency debt of 33.5 billion dlrs and lacks the means to modernise its industry. "MFN doesn't really mean anything, only that Poland will not be treated worse than other countries. It will be difficult to regain access to the U.S. Market because different forces are in play now," said one Western envoy. He said Polish products were not competitive, and their quality was too low. Trade wars and possible protectionist measures amongst the U.S., Japan and Europe would also hamper Poland's efforts to regain entry. Deputy foreign trade minister Janusz Kaczurba recognised this fact recently. Kaczurba told the official PAP news agency recently, "Making up our lost position will take a long time and be uncommonly difficult, and in certain cases impossible... In a period of two to three years it will be possible to increase the level of exports by only about 100 mln dlrs." While Poland is unlikely to seek compensation, it says it has a "moral right" to assistance from the U.S. Which it says imposed the sanctions illegally. But a Western economist said "The argument that U.S. Sanctions were a unilateral torpedoing of the Polish economy won't cut any ice. The Americans will just reply that the Poles acted immorally in crushing Solidarity." Nevertheless, Polish National Bank head Wladyslaw Baka, in talks in Washington last week with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank, made it clear that Poland was looking for a lead from the United States. He was quoted by PAP as saying that Poland would meet its financial obligations to the United States, "but not in a short time and not without a cooperative stand on the part of its foreign economic partners." He stressed that the U.S. "had a particular opportunity to play a part in the cooperative policy of Poland's partners interested in the settlement of Polish debt." Putting it more sharply, one senior banking official blamed Washington for obstructing talks with the World Bank, IMF and Paris Club of Western creditor governments in recent years and said it should now play a more positive role. "As a major superpower the United States can influence international organisations," he said, citing recent meetings aimed at stabilising currencies as an example of the extent to which Western nations were prepared to cooperate. REUTER 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON WHEAT FLOUR TO IRAQ

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted bids for export bonuses to cover sales of 25,000 tonnes of wheat flour to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonuses awarded averaged 116.84 dlrs per tonne. The shipment periods are March 15-April 20 (12,500 tonnes) and April 1-May 5 (12,500 tonnes). The bonus awards were made to Peavey Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, it said. An additional 175,000 tonnes of wheat flour are still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initative announced January 7, 1987, the department said. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON SEMOLINA TO EGYPT

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 2,000 tonnes of semolina to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonus was 233.91 dlrs per tonne and was made to International Multifoods Corp. The bonus will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. The semolina is for shipment during June 1987, it said. An additional 13,000 tonnes of semolina are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced on August 6, 1986, it said. Reuter 
YEUTTER PUTS CURRENCY BURDEN ON TAIWAN, KOREA

Responsibility for the appreciation of the Taiwan dollar and the South Korean Won lies soley with those countries, said U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter Speaking to the Asia Society, Yeutter said that it is in those countries' own long-term interest to raise the value of their currencies against the dollar. Yeutter was responding to a question about what the U.S. could do to encourage appreciation of those currencies against the dollar in order to reduce the large U.S. trade deficits with Taiwain and Korea. "An undervalued currency will help those countries' exports in the short term, but in the long run they have to be concerned about how they are perceived in the international business community," Yeutter said. For Taiwan, Yeutter said that with its per capita trade surplus with the U.S., much larger than that of Japan's, and with huge foreign exchange reserves, it was difficult to defend the high import tarrifs and other barriers that prevail in that country. He also said that the south Korean Won should begin to move to reflect underlying economic fundamentals, "otherwise in two or three years' time, Korea will be in the same situation that prevails in Taiwan." Turning to the U.S. deficit with Japan of more than 50 billion dlrs, Yeutter said that this situation was not sustainable. "Something must give soon. If not, there is a great threat of U.S. legislative action to counteract that trend," Yeutter said. Reuter 
DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DIA> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS

Diamond Shamrock said it raised its posted prices for all grades of crude oil one dlr a barrel, effective yesterday. The one dlr increase brings West Texas Intermediate, WTI the U.S. benchmark crude, to 17.00 dlrs a bbl, the company said. Diamond Shamrock joined Sun Co, Coastal, Citgo and Murphy Oil in raising crude oil posted prices one dlr a barrel yesterday. Reuter 
CONGRESS MAY CURB U.S. AID TO DEVELOPMENT BANKS

Congressional ire is rising against the multinational development banks which make loans to help other countries produce goods in direct competition with beleagured U.S. farmers and miners. With a record U.S. trade deficit of 169 billion dlrs last year and a farm economy in the doldrums, Congress is pressing to hold back U.S. funds for the World Bank and other development banks if the money is used to subsidize production or to produce goods already in oversupply around the world. "American tax dollars are being used to subsidize foreign agriculture and mineral production that is often in direct competition with our producers," Senator Don Nickles, an Oklahoma Republican, said in a letter to fellow senators seeking support for his legislation to limit these loans. Nickles and Senator Steven Symms, a conservative Republican from Idaho, have introduced legislation that would strictly limit U.S. funding of multinational development banks if they make any loans to help developing countries produce surplus commodities or minerals. Current law requires that the United States vote against such loans but carries no reprisals if they are ultimately approved by the banks. Treasury Secretary James Baker's assurances that U.S. policy is to oppose these loans did not satisfy concerns raised at two Senate committee hearings last week. Baker told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee on Foreign Operations, "As a policy matter, we oppose loans for production of commodities in oversupply." The senators cited a 350-mln-dlr World Bank loan made to Argentina last year to help it increase its agricultural exports by one billion dlrs a year by 1989. Nickles, Symms and others also have cited other loans such as a 1985 World Bank loan to Hungary to expand livestock exports and 500 mln dlrs lent to Thailand from 1981 to 1985 at low interest rates for agriculture. Last year the Republican-controlled Senate voted three times over the objections of the administration to cut U.S. funding of development banks by the amount of these loans. But even with a 65 to 15 vote in favour of the proposal, the restrictions were weakened in the final version. Only a provision directing U.S. officials to vote disapproval cleared Congress. This year's version, called the Foreign Agricultural Investment Reform (FAIR) Act would require the U.S. to vote against loans designed to increase production of surplus commodities and minerals. Also, the recipient countries would have to prove that the production, marketing and export of the commodities could be handled without government subsidy. If the loan is approved over U.S. objections, the United States would not increase or replenish funds for that institution until it agrees to stop making such loans. Objections to such loans have most often been raised by conservative Republicans who have traditionally opposed U.S. funding for these international development banks. But the loss of many jobs to foreign competition has raised similar concerns among more moderate senators. The administration opposes any legislation that would tie its hands in votes on the loans. It argues there might be instances in which a country needed the money to continue its moves toward U.S. policies in other areas. Baker said the United States would continue to use its leverage in the banks to require foreign trade liberalization measures, often in the form of elimination of subsidies. Two House Republicans, Representatives Larry Craig of Idaho and Beau Bolter of Texas, have introduced the bill. But it faces stiff opposition in the House Banking Committee which has blocked its consideration by the House in the past. Symms intends to offer the bill as an amendment to any related legislation this year, an aide said. Reuter 
CONGRESS EYES LOANS THAT AID U.S. COMPETITORS

Congressional ire is rising against the multinational development banks which make loans to help other countries produce goods in direct competition with beleagured American farmers and miners. With a record trade deficit of 169 billion dlrs last year and a farm economy in the doldrums, Congress is pressing to hold back U.S. funds for the World Bank and other development banks if the money is used to subsidize production or to produce goods already in oversupply around the world. "American tax dollars are being used to subsidize foreign agriculture and mineral production that is often in direct competition with our producers," Sen. Don Nickles, an Oklahoma Republican, said in a letter to fellow senators seeking support for his legislation to limit these loans. Nickles and Sen. Steven Symms, a conservative Republican from Idaho, have introduced legislation that would strictly limit U.S. funding of multinational development banks if they make any loans to help developing countries produce surplus commodities or minerals. Current law requires the United States to vote against such loans but carries no reprisals if they pass anyway. Treasury Secretary James Baker's assurances that U.S. policy is to oppose these loans did not satisfy concerns raised at two Senate committee hearings last week. Baker told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee on Foreign Operations, "as a policy matter, we oppose loans for production of commodities in oversupply." The senators cited a 350 mln dlr World Bank loan made to Argentina last year to help it increase its agricultural exports by one billion dlrs a year by 1989. Nickles, Symms and others also have cited other loans such as a 1985 World Bank loan to Hungary to expand livestock exports and 500 mln dlrs lent to Thailand from 1981 to 1985 at low interest rates for agriculture. Baker said the Argentine loan was "really the only one you can point to and criticize." Last year the Republican-controlled Senate voted three times over the objections of the administration to cut U.S. funding of development banks by the amount of these loans. Even with a favorable vote of 65 to 15, the restrictions were weakened in the final version. Only a provision directing U.S. officials to vote disapproval was enacted into law. This year's proposal, called the Foreign Agricultural Investment Reform (FAIR) Act would require the U.S. to vote against loans designed to increase production of surplus commodities and minerals. Also, the recipient countries would have to prove that the production, marketing and export of the commodities could be handled without government subsidy. If the loan is approved over U.S. objections, the United States would not increase or replenish funds for that institution until it agrees to stop making such loans. Objections to such loans have most often been raised by conservative Republicans who have traditionally opposed U.S. funding for these international development banks. But the loss of many jobs to foreign competition has raised similar concerns among more moderate senators. Democratic senator Barbara Mikulski of Maryland told Baker at the Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing, "Many say the banks are financing competition for American jobs." She recommended that the United States use its participation in debt forgiveness for developing country loans as a wedge to open markets to U.S. goods. The administration opposes any legislation that would tie its hands in votes on the loans. It argues there might be instances in which a country needed the money to continue its moves toward U.S. policies in other areas. Baker said the United States would continue to use its leverage in the banks to require foreign trade liberalization measures, often in the form of elimination of subsidies. Reuter 
SOYBEAN GROUP HEAD URGES USDA ACTION ON LOAN

The Agriculture Department must make a decision soon on how to change the current U.S. soybean loan or more soybeans will continue to be forfeited to the government and foreign soybean production will increase, the president of the American Soybean Association, ASA, said. "The USDA will have to bite the bullet one way or another ... USDA can dodge and dart around it (the soybean loan) as much as they want, but they have to eventually address this problem," David Haggard, ASA president, told Reuters. USDA is not offering any new soybean loan options, and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng has not consulted ASA on the soybean loan, Haggard said. "I don't know if USDA is really very serious about addressing the soybean loan problem," he said. At ASA's annual winter board of directors meeting here, ASA leaders refused to change their official position on the loan -- still calling for income support at 5.02 dlrs. The association backs current bills of Rep. Bill Emerson, R-Mo. and Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., which call for either a 5.02 marketing loan or a producer option payment. Haggard said he does not know what chances the ASA-backed proposals have but said, "in all honesty, we do not want to see the farm bill be torn apart." He said if USDA feels it cannot withdraw its opposition to a market loan, there are still numerous ways the USDA could change the loan without new legislation. Making the loan partially in certificates which would not have to be paid back would be one option, he said. Reuter 
NO SOVIET WHEAT BONUS TALK PLANNED FOR MEETING

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng does not intend to discuss a wheat export enhancement initiative to the Soviet Union at a cabinet-level Economic Policy Council meeting set for tomorrow, an aide to Lyng said. "He (Lyng) does not intend to bring it up," the aide said, adding that the subsidy offer remains "dormant." Lyng plans to spend "about five minutes" reviewing the status of farm legislation on Capitol Hill before the Economic Policy Council, which is responsible for guiding the administration's economic policy, the aide said. The USDA secretary met this morning with members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, but the handful of lawmakers present did not ask whether the administration intended to offer Moscow a wheat export bonus, the aide said. Reuter 
FED NOT EXPECTED TO TAKE MONEY MARKET ACTION

The Federal Reserve is not expected to intervene in the U.S. government securities market to add or drain reserves, economists said. Most economists said they did not expect the Fed to add reserves with Federal funds trading below six pct. They said the funds rate's softer tone may indicate that the need to add reserves in the current bank reserve maintenance period is smaller than previously estimated. Fed funds opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained at that level. Yesterday funds averaged 6.01 pct. Reuter 
ANTIBIOTICS IN FEED AID DEADLY BACTERIA: STUDY

A study of salmonella poisoning has uncovered new evidence that the common practice of feeding antibiotics to cattle is helping to create deadly bacteria that can infect humans and resist medicines. Researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control tracked the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol and were able to link the resulting food poisoning to farms that used the drug to promote the growth of cattle. Cattlemen often give their animals a constant supply of antibiotics in feed to help them grow faster. But critics have been warning for years that the constant exposure to the drugs is helping bacteria learn to resist the drugs. Industry officials have disputed this, saying the diseases that develop a resistance in cattle probably do not affect humans. But the new study, reported in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine, shows the diseases can spread to humans. The research team, led by Dr. John Spika, said the number of people who have developed the chloramphenicol-resistant infection in Los Angeles County alone jumped from 69 in 1984 to 298 the following year. Two of those victims died and half the victims in their study of 45 patients had to be hospitalized for their illness. They also discovered that cooking the meat didn't always prevent the disease. Only 15 pct of the victims reported eating raw, infected hamburger. Thus, the researchers concluded, "the majority of cases appear to have been caused by eating hamburger that was at least partially cooked." The researchers said the results show that "food animals are a major source of antimicrobial-resistant salmonella infections in humans, and that these infections are associated with (antibiotic) use on farms." Reuter 
REPORT DUE ON OIL IMPORTS AND NATIONAL SECURITY

A presidential commission that has been studying oil imports, including their effect on national security, is to to make its report soon, the White House said. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the panel, set up last October to examine U.S. oil import needs, would make its report soon, probably within the next few weeks. He said National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci "will wait until that report is in and then see if there is any special action needed to be taken in the national security area to implement it." Reuter 
U.S. COMMERCE'S ORTNER SAYS YEN UNDERVALUED

Commerce Dept. undersecretary of economic affairs Robert Ortner said that he believed the dollar at current levels was fairly priced against most European currencies. In a wide ranging address sponsored by the Export-Import Bank, Ortner, the bank's senior economist also said he believed that the yen was undervalued and could go up by 10 or 15 pct. "I do not regard the dollar as undervalued at this point against the yen," he said. On the other hand, Ortner said that he thought that "the yen is still a little bit undervalued," and "could go up another 10 or 15 pct." In addition, Ortner, who said he was speaking personally, said he thought that the dollar against most European currencies was "fairly priced." Ortner said his analysis of the various exchange rate values was based on such economic particulars as wage rate differentiations. Ortner said there had been little impact on U.S. trade deficit by the decline of the dollar because at the time of the Plaza Accord, the dollar was extremely overvalued and that the first 15 pct decline had little impact. He said there were indications now that the trade deficit was beginning to level off. Turning to Brazil and Mexico, Ortner made it clear that it would be almost impossible for those countries to earn enough foreign exchange to pay the service on their debts. He said the best way to deal with this was to use the policies outlined in Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt initiative. Reuter 
ERICSSON'S U.S. UNIT WINS 1.4 MLN DLR CONTRACT

Ericsson Corp, the U.S. unit of <LM Ericsson Telephone Co> of Sweden, said it won a 1.4 mln dlr contract from California's Somona State University for computer communications equipment. The contract includes Ericsson's MD110 digital private branch exchange and a local area network, supplying voice services to 1500 campus computer users and greater computer access, the company said. Reuter 
WORLD GRAIN TRADE RECOVERY MAY BE UNDERWAY

World grain trade could be turning the corner and heading toward recovery in the 1986-87 season, a Cargill, Inc. analyst said. Writing in the March issue of the Cargill Bulletin, David Rogers of Cargill's Commodity Marketing Division cited a gradual rise in world wheat trade in recent months, with a slow rise in wheat prices after recent historic lows. He said the wheat trade, because wheat can be produced in many nations, is a good barometer of world grain trade and could lead to more activity in other grain markets. Rogers said that with world grain prices at their lowest level in over a quarter of a century in real terms, demand has begun to rise while producing nations are re-examining their expensive price-support policies and reducing planted acres. Reuter 
NPPC DELEGATES APPROVE DISEASE AND DRUG PROGRAMS

Delegates from the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs for control and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of a national safe drug use program. The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress in Indianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradication program at the state level after a recommendation from NPPC's PRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee. The PRV committee received results of a three year, five state pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate in eradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The project was jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC. "Primarily it (the program) allows individual states to deal with their own problems according to a timetable that suits them best," Mike Wehler, member of the NPPC's PRV oversight committee said. In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a plan asking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe drug use program. The program would establish better relationships between producers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a quality assurance program in pork production, according to the plan. "This program basically communicates to the FDA that we are concerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugs safely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue in effect," Wehler said. Reuter 
FEBRUARY U.S. RETAIL SALES NOT SIGN OF UPTURN

U.S. retailers posted stronger than expected sales in February, but not enough to prompt analysts to change their expectations of sluggish sales growth for the first half of 1987. "My feeling is that it (February) borrowed some of the business we normally see later in the quarter and the real strength of general merchandise sales will be in the second half of 1987," said Bear Stearns and Co analyst Monroe Greenstein. "I don't think March will be as strong because Easter falls in April this year," said Morgan Stanley analyst Walter Loeb. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurrence. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for February rose between six and 6.5 pct, compared to a 3.6 pct increase last year. Analysts noted that February is considered a small, transitory month between winter and spring. In addition, sales comparisons were boosted by an especially soft February last year which was adversely affected by severe weather. Apparel sales outshone other product groups in sales, according to retailers and analysts. "February's strong sales reflected a lot of fresh merchandise on the shelves and higher consumer income due to tax reductions," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Analysts expect apparel sales to remain good as sales of durable and houseware items grow softer due to the continuing high levels of consumer debt. May Department Stores Co <MAY> and K Mart Corp <KM> were among the strong performers, posting comparable store sales gains of 9.4 pct and 8.2 pct, respectively. May had an overall sales gain of 15.0 pct and K Mart had a 13.1 pct sales gain last month. "Favorable consumer response to our merchandise programs continued to positively impact our sales comparisons. IN addition to the strong contribution by K Mart stores, all our specialty retailing companies had excellent February sales," said K Mart chairman Bernard Fauber. Sears Roebuck and Co <S> posted a 4.9 pct increase. "Domestic sales were led by better than average increases in apparel, home fashions and hardware and especially strong catalog sales," said Sears chairman Edward Brennan. Analysts were a little disappointed by J.C. Penney Co Inc <JCP> which started out with especially strong sales early in the month. Penney posted a 5.5 pct increase on a comparitive store basis and a 5.3 pct gain in overall sales. Penney chairman William Howell said, "store sales were strongest during the early part of the month, while catalog demand was consistently strong throughout the period. Store sales activity varied throughout the country, ranging from good in the East to weak in the depressed southwest. Analysts also said gross profit margins were high as retailers were not overly promotional due to leaner inventories than a year ago. "February is not a big month seasonally but these numbers suggest a fairly good trend for consumer spending," said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst Jeff Edelman. FEBRUARY SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE PCT 1987 1986 SEARS 4.9 1.8 BILL 1.8 BILL K MART 13.1 1.5 BILL 1.3 BILL WAL-MART 44.0 885 MLN 615 MLN JC PENNEY 5.3 780 MLN 741 MLN FEDERATED 9.6 720 MLN 657 MLN MAY 15.0 632 MLN 550 MLN DAYTON HUDSON 19.5 602 MLN 504 MLN ZAYRE 25.7 327 MLN 260 MLN MONTGOMERY WARD 11.1 277 MLN 249 MLN Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON STRESSES PRICE STABILITY

Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said that maintaining price stability was critical to achieving non-inflationary economic growth in the world and said that progress was being made. "It is worth reiterating that the Federal Reserve's promotion of price stability is critical to the successful implementation of virtually all of the important ingredients for growth," he told the Eastern Economic Association. Johnson said initial progress has been made on a variety of fronts. "Federal Reserve monetary policy, the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation, the G-6 agreement, and the Baker debt initiative for example all have moved us in the right direction," he said. G-6 is comprised of U.S., Britain, France, Japan, West Germany and Canada. On the budget deficit, Johnson said meeting precise numerical goals was less important than a continuing commitment toward slowing the growth of federal spending. There was evidence deficits as a pct of Gross National Product were declining and would continue to drop, he said. But Johnson warned against reliance on inflow of foreign capital to finance investment and the budget deficit and keep interest rates stable. "This situation, however, cannot continue indefinitely. Sooner or later progress must be made in controlling excessive federal spending," he said. A disinflationary monetary policy should continue to be the main objective of the Fed, Johnson said. He also said a more stable and sustainable alignment of exchange rates was needed for long-term growth. On the trade deficit, Johnson warned against "quick fix" solutions, which he identified as excessive dollar depreciation or protectionist trade legislation. "What is important is that we attempt to maintain healthy returns to capital and adopt policies encouraging genuine economic growth," he said. Such an approach would finance the trade deficit but allow for its gradual resolution over time. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY SAYS NO COMMENT ON YEN VALUE

A Treasury Department spokesman refused comment on statements by Robert Ortner, undersecretary of economic affairs for the Commerce Department, that the Japanese yen was undervalued. Ortner, senior economist at the Commerce Department, told an Export-Import Bank conference "the yen is still a little bit undervalued," and "could go up another 10 or 15 pct." Asked for reaction, a Treasury spokesman said officials were aware of Ortner's comments but had no intention of making any comment on them. Ortner, who stressed he was expressing personal views, said he thought the U.S. dollar was "fairly priced" against most European currencies and added "I do not regard the dollar as undervalued at this point against the yen," he said. But the yen should go up 10 or 15 pct in value, Ortner said, because it is undervalued against the dollar. The United States and major trade allies West Germany, France, Britain, Japan and Canada met recently in Paris to discuss maintaining stability in international currency values. Reuter 
NYSE EXAMINES HECK'S <HEX> LISTING STATUS

The New York Stock Exchange said it is reviewing the eligibility for continued listing of Heck's Inc's commonn stock after the company announced that it has filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. Reuter 
NYSE SELLS 17 NYFE SEATS

The New York Stock Exchange said it sold 17 seats on the New York Futures Exchange, three for 200 dlrs, unchanged from the previous sale on February 25, and 14 for 100 dlrs, down 100 dlrs. The Exchange said the current bid is 100 dlrs and the current offer is 300 dlrs. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON WARNS U.S. BANKS ON LDC RIGIDITY

Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said that some U.S. banks have been too rigid in talks with lesser developed countries on debt refinancings and warned that a breakdown of the renegotiation process could be harmful. "There have been some difficulties in those negotiations ... banks have sometimes been too rigid," Johnson said in response to a question during an address before the Eastern Economic Association, an academic group. "I think there have been potential breakdowns in that process," he said, adding that an actual breakdown "would be very unfortunate." He declined to comment on the situation of specific nations and said it was not the Fed's role to become involved in such talks. However, he said it was "always a little bit risky" for a heavily indebted nation to seek refinancing without first negotiating with the International Monetary Fund on economic reforms. He added that he remains optimistic that current talks would be resolved successfully. Reuter 
WORLD BANK HEAD SAYS BRAZIL MORATORIUM TEMPORARY

World Bank president Barber Conable said he believed that Brazil would come up with a medium term economic plan and that the current debt moritorium would be temporary. Speaking briefly to reporters following an address before the Export-Import Bank, Conable said that the bank had been urging the Brazilian government to come up with a specific plan designed to work the country out of its present economic difficulty. "Brazil would like to come up with such a plan," he said, adding: "the moritorium is likely to be a temporary affair." During his formal remarks, Conable made it clear that he believed Brazil must take some specific internal action. He said "they have everyone's attention but it must be followed by a construtive plan." He said that he expected Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro, who he met with last week to discuss the Brazilian debt suspension action, to return for further discussion but did not currently have a specific meeting arranged. Conable also told the gathering of mostly commericial bankers that in order for the Baker debt initiative to work all parties to the program must be on board. Reuter 
AUSTRALIA ATTACKS U.S. GATT FARM RULES EXEMPTION

Australia accused the U.S. of increasing protectionism on agricultural products and called for an end to Washington's special 32-year exemption from certain GATT rules on agricultural trade. Robert Arnott, Australia's delegate to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), made the appeal at a special annual meeting which reviews the 1955 U.S. waiver. "Australia today said the United States' goals of reducing U.S. barriers to agricultural trade were being contradicted by actions which in fact increased protection in trade in agriculture," the Australian delegation said in a statement. "The United States section 22 waiver is one of the basic flaws in the GATT coverage of agriculture," Arnott told the meeting. Arnott said the waiver had continually been used as a justification for "dubious protective measures" by the U.S. He listed a recent Dairy Export Incentive Program and steps to close the U.S. sugar market to imports. He also told Reuters the waiver allowed Washington to impose quotas on imports of farm products where it had domestic support programs. This covered imports of dairy products, peanuts, cotton and sugar. Asked to comment, Michael Samuels, U.S. ambassador to the GATT, told Reuters: "These charges have been made since the very beginning. The waiver is part of domestic U.S. agricultural policy, part of our law when we joined the GATT". "We have agreed to put the waiver on the table during the Uruguay Round and invite other countries to do the same with their programs. We can negotiate them all," Samuels added. Ninety-two nations are taking part in the four-year Uruguay round of talks launched in Punta del Este last September. Bargaining in agricultural goods and services (banking, tourism, insurance) is included for the first time as well as manufactured goods. Reuter 
VW EXPECTS FURTHER FALL IN U.S. SALES IN 1987

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> expects currency factors to cause a further drop in its U.S. Sales in 1987 following a 5.2 pct sales decline in the United States in 1986, board member Karl-Heinz Briam said. Briam, who described the current situation of the U.S. Market as critical, also said VW was uncertain whether it would be able in 1987 to fully match its record 1986 European sales. In 1986 the VW group, which includes Audi AG <NSUG.F>, delivered a record 981,000 vehicles to European markets outside of West Germany, a rise of 5.1 pct against 1985, Briam told a regular quarterly meeting of the Wolfsburg plant's workforce. Briam said sales conditions in Europe had generally become more difficult in 1987 because of weaker growth rates and fiercer competition in the region. Briam gave no forecast for VW domestic sales. But he said car sales in West Germany for all manufacturers combined would probably fall by a slight three to four pct from 1986's record 2.73 mln because car sales in West Germany had likely passed their peak for this business cycle. Summing up his predictions, Briam said limits to growth were becoming apparent on the VW group's most important markets but there were no grounds for great worries. The automobile industry, as far as VW was concerned, had entered its fourth consecutive good year, with VW's incoming orders and sales remaining favourable overall, he said. Briam, who is VW's director of labour relations, also said VW currently had no plans for further increases in its workforce. He told the plant's workforce that an internationally-active company like VW must be able to adjust to changed economic conditions and manage situations in which unfavourable currency relations restrict its room for financial maneuver. Briam said VW needed to hold and expand market share in order to overcome its cost disadvantages compared with some of its foreign competitors, particularly those in the Far East. This could only be done if capital-intensive plants were used as fully as possible, if the workers' qualifications were raised through comprehensive training and if working hours were arranged so that expensive production plants operated as efficiently and soundly as possible. The metalworkers union IG Metall has said it plans to push for a 35-hour working week in its sector of West Germany industry this year. Walter Hiller, the chairman of VW's works council, told the same Wolfsburg meeting that a cut in the working week to 35 hours was necessary to help reduce unemployment. He said the works council was prepared to negotiate on making working hours more flexible to suit the needs of both the company and the workforce. A seven-week strike by IG Metall in the summer of 1984 for a 35-hour week in the West German metal industry ended in a compromise that cut hours to 38.5 hours but also allowed each company in the industry to decide, in consultation with the workforce, how the reductions should be made. REUTER 
FREEPORT-MCMORAN GOLD <FAU> IN JOINT VENTURE

Freeport-McMoran Gold Co (FMG), a unit of Freeport-McMoran Inc <FTX>, said it will explore and develop gold properties in Canada in a joint venture with <Aber Resources Ltd> and <Highwood Resources Ltd>, both Canadian companies. FMG said the area is located on the Bugow property on the northeast arm of Great Slave Lake, about 75 miles from Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada. FMG said that under the agreement it will either spend 7.4 mln dlrs over the next four years, or bring the property into the feasibility stage over that time. FMG said during that time it will pay Aber and Highwood 775,000 dlrs in cash that, together with the 7.4 mln dlrs, will earn FMG a 51 pct interest in all leases and claims. FMG said all expenditures and payments are in Canadian dollars. Reuter 
HOUSE 0/92 FARM PROPOSAL SEEN SPARKING DEBATE

A House Agriculture Committee meeting later today to draft a disaster aid bill is expected to spark a debate between lawmakers who want to expand the 0/92, or "de-coupling," provision to cover feedgrains, and those who oppose 0/92 or want it severely limited, Congressional sources said. The disaster aid bill as it now stands calls for a one-year 0/92 pilot program for 1987 crop wheat and the 1988 winter wheat crop. The bill would allow farmers to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments. The administration has strongly urged that the bill be expanded to feedgrains and to more than one year. It is difficult to tell in what form the 0/92 provision will emerge from the committee, the sources said. Proponents of an expansion of 0/92 maintain there are large estimated cost savings of such a bill -- ranging from estimates by the administration of 200 to 500 mln dlrs. Opposition to a reopening of the 1985 farm bill at this time is the major reason cited by those against an expansion of the bill, committee staffers said. The 0/92 plan is scheduled to be discussed at 1530 EST. A conflicting floor vote delayed the start of the meeting, and staffers said it may have to be delayed even until next week. Such a delay would not bode well for proponents of an expanded 0/92 program, since spring planting in many areas of the country will be underway in the next few weeks and signup for the 1987 wheat and feedgrains program ends March 30. Farmers are now making their planting decisions, so something has to be done quickly if a 0/92 program is to be implemented, an Agriculture Department source said. An expansion of 0/92 to feedgrains was opposed in last week's subcommittee hearing on the bill, with subcommittee chairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., saying that more study of the consequences of decoupling on feedgrains plantings was necessary. Major commodity groups, including the National Corn Growers, the American Farm Bureau and the National Cattlemen's Association, have voiced strong opposition to 0/92. But proponents of an expanded 0/92 argue that the bill currently is not equitable for all grains producers, so it should be extended to other crops. There will be difficulty in limiting 0/92 to wheat, said Gene Moos, aide to house majority leader Tom Foley, D-Wash. Projected cost savings, in the current atmosphere of try to decrease farm expenditures, would also be hard to ignore in the debate to expand the 0/92 application, Moos said. Rep. Charles Stenholm, D-Tex., may be planning to introduce a bill to restrict 0/92 to only 1987 crop wheat, with the argument that now is not the time to vote in favor of any major changes in the farm bill. "Stenholm's bill is not a rejection of 0/92, only of the timing," a congressional staff member said. Rep. Arland Stangeland (R-Minn.) is reported to have an amendment to expand the 0/92 provision to 1987 and 1988 feedgrains. Reuter 
CHINA ADDS, CANCELS WHEAT COMMITMENTS - USDA

China has added 90,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat to its purchases for delivery in the 1987/88 season and cancelled 30,000 tonnes of wheat purchases for delivery in the 1986/87 season, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. According to the department's Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended February 26, China has outstanding wheat commitments for the 1986/87 season of 30,000 tonnes and 420,000 tonnes for delivery in the 1987/88 season. The wheat season begins June 1. China has total corn commitments for 1986/87 of 1,011,200 tonnes and soybeans commitments of 157,500 tonnes. The season for corn and soybeans began September 1. Reuter 
U.S. TO SET ORANGE JUICE DUTIES MONDAY

The Commerce Department on Monday will set final dumping duties on frozen orange juice from Brazil, department officials said. A preliminary duty of 8.54 pct was set last Oct 17 on the imports, which run at about 700 mln dlrs a year. Commerce's ruling on Monday will reset the duties on the basis of more detailed cost information, industry officials said. The duties now are being assessed on a temporary basis, pending a final ruling by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) on whether the imports are injuring the domestic orange industry. The ITC ruled provisionally last June 18 that the domestic industry was being injured by Brazilian orange juice imports. A complaint that the Brazilian imports were being dumped at below costs on the U.S. market was filed on behalf of U.S. growers by the Florida Citrus Mutual, a Lakeland, Fla., group, Alcoma Packing Co, Inc, and Barry Citrus Products. U.S. officials say about half of the orange juice consumed in the United States comes from Brazil. reuter 
ENDEVCO <EI> AGREES TO BUY MISSISSIPPI PIPELINE

Endevco Inc said it has agreed to acquire a 17.5-mile, 16-inch pipeline in Marion and Pearl River Counties, Mississippi, for undisclosed terms. The company said the pipeline was recently constructed from the Poplarville gas field in Pearl River County to a proposed interconnect with a pipeline operated by Occidental Petroleum Corp's <OXY> United Gas Pipe Line Co subsidiary in Marion County but has nmot been placed in service. Endevco said it plans to extend its existing Mississippi Fuel Co System in southern Mississippi 18 miles to the new pipeline. Reuter 
CONSENSUS BUILDS FOR WORLD AGRICULTURAL REFORM

Top U.S. and European farm trade and government representatives called for a sweeping reform of world agriculture to redress a critical demand and supply imbalance. Speakers at a conference on world agricultural markets here demonstrated a growing U.S.-European consensus on the need for an urgent and collective overhaul of world farm trade and production. "It is vital that we work together to bring more freedom and harmony into the world agricultural trade...(if not) the disruptions in markets may grow even more severe, the walls of protection climb higher and the level of possible retaliation become more harmful," U.S. Department of Agriculture Deputy Administrator William Bailey said. Bailey said his attendance at the two-day meeting, which ends tomorrow, demonstrated the U.S. recognises the need to adjust its policies to the changing market environment. The need for urgent reforms is justified by the "imbalance and tensions of the world economy," the secretary general of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Jean-Claude Paye said. And the forum for such a reform is the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, he noted. Paye stressed the need for a progressive and joint reduction of agricultural subsidies as well as social measures to help farmers in unprofitable areas. Another possible solution would be to stop supporting farm prices, allowing them to be fixed by supply and demand, and instead help farmers through income support and adjustment aids, proposed James Howard, Executive Vice-president of Cargill (USA), one of the world's largest cereal houses. Franz-Josef Feiter, agricultural adviser to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, agreed the European Community must take greater heed of market constraints in fixing farm prices. However, "differentiated policy treatment is required" to take account of large disparities in the situation around the EC, he said. "Agriculture is an efficient sector of the European economy and will remain so if the right policy is pursued within the Community," he said. Reuter 
ASCS BUYS PEANUT PRODUCTS, VEG OIL/SHORTENING

The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) bought 2.3 mln pounds of peanut products at a cost of 2.1 mln dlrs and 7.4 mln pounds of vegetable oil/shortening for 2.0 mln dlrs, for domestic distribution April 1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesman said. Reuter 
HOUSE 0/92 FARM PLAN MARKUP DELAYED TILL TUESDAY

A House Agriculture Committee meeting to draft a disaster aid bill containing a controversial 0/92 provision has been postponed until next Tuesday, committee staff members announced. The bill contains a provision implementing a 0/92 acreage reduction plan for 1986 wheat and 1987 winter wheat, thereby making payments available to farmers who were not able to plant last year's winter wheat crop because of flooding. Controversy exists over whether the 0/92 provisions of the bill should be expanded, cut back or left as is. Reuter 
PORK DELEGATES VOTE ON FARM BILL, FARM CREDIT

Delegates from the National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congress in Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S. congress not to change the farm bill. While there are no specific pork items in that legislation, feed grain prices directly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said. Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said "to have unpredictable changes come along periodically makes it very difficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption." Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections but that's a price pork producers are willing to pay for legislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said. Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution that Congress and the administration should act swiftly to identify problems in the farm credit system. Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected Vice President of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted a program that all commodity groups can work with and bring a resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington. Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council will work to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to save or create any one credit system. Reuter 
CONFIDENCE IN OPEC FIRMS U.S. ENERGY FUTURES

Renewed confidence in OPEC's ability to limit production helped U.S. energy futures settle above yesterday's closing prices, according to analysts. They also said the heating oil contract found additional support from a short-covering rally on the close. April crude closed 24 cts higher to 17.75 dlrs. April heating oil was 1.47 cts higher to 47.91 cts a gallon. "Most traders expected follow through profit-taking from yesterday but the market found suport from bullish reports that OPEC is producing within its quota," said Simon Greenshields, a vice president with Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. News today, including OPEC President Rilwanu Lukman statement that OPEC February production did not exceed its official quota of 15.8 mln barrels per day, helped bouy prices, traders said. A Reuter survey found OPEC production in early March was 14.7 mln bpd. In addition to short-covering, heating oil found support from traders buying it against sales of gasoline and crude, as well as from expectations for continued drawdowns in stocks as refiners shut down for maintenance, traders said. Unleaded gasoline for April finished 0.55 cent higher to 51.24 cts a gallon. Reuter 
TWA <TWA> PILOTS WELCOME BID FOR USAIR <U>

The Airline Pilots Association said members working at Trans World Airlines Inc welcomed their airline's announced proposal to acquire USAir Group Inc,. Union leaders for the TWA pilot group said the offer of 52 dlrs a share was a positive indication that Carl Icahn intends to build TWA into a viable air carrier. Reuter 
TREASURY SAYS ONLY REAGAN, BAKER SPEAK ON DLR

The U.S. Treasury repeated a White House statement that only President Reagan and Treasury Secretary James Baker are authorized to speak on the dollar. A Department spokesman was commenting on remarks by Commerce Department Under-Secretary Robert Ortner that the yen was undervalued 10 or 15 pct against the dollar but European currencies were fairly priced against the U.S. currency. "As Larry Speakes said on January 14 this year, only two people in this administration are authorized to speak on the dollar and that is the president and the secretary of the treasury," the spokesman told Reuters. reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 1.9 BILLION DLRS

U.S. M-1 money supply rose 1.9 billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.5 billion dlrs in the February 23 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 736.6 billion dlrs from 736.7 billion dlrs, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 736.7 billion dlrs from 735.0 billion. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast M-1 in a range from down 500 mln dlrs to up 4.5 billion dlrs. The average forecast called for a 2.2 billion dlr M-1 rise. Reuter 
RIVERBEND <RIV> BEGINS TRADING ON AMEX

The American Stock Exchange said 5,500,000 shares of Riverbend International Corp began trading today under the symbol RIV. It said the agricultural concern, based in Sanger, Calif., opened on 37,000 shares at nine. AMEX said the company is the 14th initial public offering to be listed on AMEX this year. Last year AMEX listed 53 initial public offerings. Reuter 
FERC ISSUES TAKE-OR-PAY GAS POLICY PLAN

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued a proposed policy statement for the recovery of take-or-pay costs imposed by existing natural gas contracts between producers and pipelines. It put out the statement, by 5-0 vote, for a 30-day comment period. It also put out an alternative policy statement by Commissioner Charles Stalon. FERC said in a press release that "the proposed policy statement estblishes an exception to the commission's general policy that take-or-pay buy-out and buy-down costs must be recovered through pipeline' commodity sales rates." FERC added that "specifically, in cases where pipelines assume an equitable share of buy-out or buy-down costs, the commission proposes to permit the pipelines to recover the remaining costs through their demand rates." It said it wanted guidelines for buying out and reforming existing contracts to help spread the impact of these take-or-pay costs in a responsible, fair and equitable way. Commission chairwoman Martha Hesse said "this proposal represents the commission's sincere attempt to help the industry through this difficult period of transition to a more competitive market." Hesse said "it is my hope that our proposed policy will encourage and guide the timely resolution of take-or-pay contractual disputes that have impeded the industry's transition to a more competitive environment. It is vital to the industry that we get this problem behind us." reuter 
MEATPACKERS REJECT OCCIDENTAL <OXY> UNIT OFFER

United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 222 rejected a new contract proposal from Iowa Beef Processors Inc and remain out of work, union spokesman Allen Zack said. In mid-December, Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, closed its beef processing plant at Dakota City, Nebraska, because it said "it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations." About 2,800 UFCWU members are affected by what the union terms as a lockout. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired December 13. Zack said IBP's proposal included elimination of a two-tier wage structure, a 60 cent an hour wage cut for slaughterers and a 45 cent an hour wage reduction for processors. The new proposal also included a bonus system of 1,000 dlrs for workers who had been at the plant for two years, Zack said. The annual turnover rate at the facility is 100 pct, he said. Reuter 
HOUSE 0/92 PLAN SEEN SCALED-BACK TO 1987 WHEAT

Key members of the House Agriculture committee have agreed to scale-back the 0/92 provision of a pending disaster aid bill to cover only 1987 crop wheat, but a broader 0/92 proposal is likely to be resurrected later, Congressional sources said. The sources said key lawmakers including Reps. Glenn English (D-Okla.), and Dan Glickman (D-Kan.) agreed to support an amendment to be offered next week by Rep. Charles Stenholm (D-Tex.) which would limit 0/92 only to producers of 1987 crop winter and spring wheat. This would scale-back the 0/92 provision to the original proposal by English allowing a pilot 0/92 program for 1987 wheat only. That provision was later broadened by the subcommittee to include 1988 crop winter wheat. Under 0/92, a farmer can forego planting a crop but still collect 92 pct of deficiency payments. Earlier today, the House Agriculture committee postponed until next Tuesday a meeting to consider the disaster aid bill and 0/92. The agreement to limit 0/92 to a wheat pilot program follows vocal criticism of the proposal by some influential farm groups who are concerned about the major impact of 0/92, and by members of Congress wary of reopening the farm bill. Congressional sources said there has not been enough time to study the implications of a broad 0/92. "The timing (of the proposal) is off," said one aide to a House Agriculture committee member. However, several Congressional sources said they expect a broader 0/92 provision to emerge again when the House Agriculture committee is faced next month with the need to make spending cuts in the agriculture budget for fiscal 1988 as part of an overall deficit reduction package. Gene Moos, aide to House Majority leader Tom Foley (D-Wash.), predicted agriculture's share of budget cuts may exceed one billion dlrs. A broader 0/92 might be resurrected later because both the Congressional Budget Office and the Reagan administration estimate it would result in significant budget savings. A U.S. Agriculture Department official said 0/92 for all 1987 crops would save 300 to 400 mln dlrs and more than 1.5 billion dlrs over five years. Another factor which could affect the 0/92 debate is the approach of planting season, Congressional sources said. Some officials said it already is late for implementation of a 0/92 in 1987 because farm program signup ends March 31 for wheat and feedgrains. If Congress approved 0/92 later in the year sign-up either would have to be extended or reopened, sources said. Reuter 
FAVORED TRADE STATUS FOR MOSCOW STILL OPPOSED

The Reagan administration wants to encourage expanded trade with the Soviet Union but does not believe Moscow yet warrants most-favored-nation treatment, Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said. "It seems to me that more trade between us is better than less trade," he told a forum on U.S.-Soviet trade relations. To that end, the administration in January allowed foreign policy controls on the export of oil and gas equipment to the Soviet Union to lapse, he said. Also, Washington and its allies are reviewing remaining export controls in hopes of simplifying the list of prohibited items and speeding up the licensing process, he said. Whitehead said, however, the prefential treatment that comes with most-favored-nation status is out for the moment. U.S. law prohibits most-favored-nation status for countries that restrict emigration and other rights. "What we have seen so far (in improved rights under Soviet Leader Mikhail Gorbachev) are promising trends," he said. But, he added: "We don't know if they will continue, we don't know how significant they will be." Reuter 
BRAZIL DEBT SEEN PARTNER TO HARD SELL TACTICS

Brazil's recent announcement of a suspension in interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign debt gave the banking system the jitters and confirmed views among many international economists and commodities analysts that Brazil will continue to flex its trading muscles in 1987. The developing world's most indebted nation is also its most prolific exporter of agricultural commodities such as coffee and soybeans, and might maximize foreign exchange revenue by selling hard on world markets, economists said. "That sounds like a reasonable strategy. But there is no way they can trade their way out of this situation," Aldo Roldan, Vice President for International Services at Chase Econometrics, said. Roldan told Reuters that Brazil not only had to tackle the problems of satisfying domestic demand and competing on glutted world markets, but also had to work to make its position on foreign exchange markets more profitable. "Domestic costs have increased (due to inflation) and exporters have not had the same offsetting movement in exchange rates," Roldan said. The Chase economist also said commodities markets were depressed and generally did not appear very promising for a country like Brazil, where pure commodities account for some 50 pct of exports and in 1986 had a total value of around 23 billion dlrs. But he added: "They are always pretty aggressive and they have good foreign marketing channels." Analysts said a key factor in Brazilian trade will be coffee, and even without background pressure from foreign creditors the world's largest producer was expected to hit the market this year with a vengeance. Negotiations between International Coffee Organization (ICO) members to re-establish producer export quotas broke up earlier this week with major producers and consumers accusing each other of intransigence. "Brazil would not tolerate a change in ICO regulations, which others wanted changed," one senior coffee dealer said. The dealer, who declined to be named, said Brazil wanted to preserve its market share. At the end of the talks, he said Brazil hinted it could sell more than anyone else and others would suffer. Brazil will be an aggressive seller under any scenario but as yet there is no sign of unusually heavy Brazilian sales, the dealer said. "If they do come into the market at this level it will go lower and you could breach a dollar, ninety or eighty cents," he said. New York coffee futures for May delivery settled 2.29 cents lower Thursday at 104.68 cents a lb, while more distant deliveries fell the six-cent maximum trading limit. President of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster told a press conference in Rio de Janeiro today that Brazil has no set target for its coffee exports following the breakdown of the ICO talks on export quotas. Many economists and analysts believe soybeans could be the focus of possible stepped-up Brazilian marketing efforts. "They will be more aggressive this year than they have ever been," according to Richard Loewy, analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. Loewy believes the foreign debt problem, a good crop, plus difficulties with storage would help motivate selling of the Brazil soybean crop. "Brazilian farmers also need cash flow and they can't afford to store the crops," he said. The Chicago soybean complex has been nervous for some time about large South American crops developing under near ideal conditions towards record yields. "We are going to see a very rapid decline, earlier than usual, this year in our (U.S.) exports," Loewy said. Tommy Eshleman, economist for the American Soybean Association (ASA), said this year's Brazilian soybean harvest could total 18 mln tonnes, versus 13.7 mln last year. Marketings will be very aggressive this summer when prices are usually high relative to the rest of the year due to the vulnerability of the U.S. crop to bad growing weather. Another incentive to sell might be trade anticipation of a reduction in the U.S. government soybean loan rate, offered to farmers who give crops as collateral, Eshleman said. He said there has been some uncertainty this year about the soybean loan rate, which acts as an effective floor for prices by keeping supplies away from the free market. Farmers can forfeit their beans to the government rather than repay the loan. "We're getting into a period when they (Brazil) are starting to harvest and starting to export," Eshleman said. But he added it will be a while before U.S. exports fall to below 10 mln bushels a week from around 20 mln bushels currently. Jose Melicias from the research department of Drexel Burnham Lambert said Brazil would be trying to export as much as it can this year because of its economic situation. He said the debt situation was a major consideration. "The Brazilian government also does not have enough money to pay for storage," he added. Asked if a return to an inflationary environment in Brazil would make farmers inclined to hold onto crops, Melicias said it would not make a big difference. On other commodity markets, Brazil's selling impact may be muted no matter its need to generate capital. Brazil is faced with a poor 1986/87 sugar harvest, which could limit exports to the world market, analysts said. The country may have oversold and be unable to honor export commitments, and this plus higher domestic demand caused by consumer price subsidies on ethanol and refined sugar, will give it little room to stretch exports, they said. Brazil's other major crop, cocoa, is in its third year of surplus. "Cocoa consumption is basically flat and last year it fell, so I don't think they can start throwing out cocoa and find many more markets for it," one analyst said. "If they come out as aggressive sellers, the market would collapse and they can't afford to do that," she added. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE GROUP URGES SUBSIDIES FOR USSR

A majority of the Senate Agriculture Committee urged President Reagan to reverse his opposition to export subsidies to the Soviet Union as a way to get its negotiators to purchase some 500 mln dlrs in American wheat. The group, led by committee chairman Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, urged Reagan to step up negotiations with the Soviet Union by providing export subsidies to help U.S. farmers. Reuter 
ADMINISTRATION MOVES TO FREE REST OF CONTRA AID

The Reagan administration issued a formal statement to Congress designed to free the remaining 40 mln dlrs in 1987 aid for the U.S.-backed "Contra" rebels in Nicaragua. The aid is the last instalment of 100 mln dlrs voted by Congress for the Contras, and is to be spent on major military equipment. Congress now has 15 days to disapprove of the 40 mln dlrs. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said: "We think the prospects for approval are very good." The long-awaited administration move followed by one day President Reagan's speech to the nation on a report on the secret Iran arms sales to Iran and diversion of profits to the contras. In the House of Representatives earlier today, Rep. David Bonior, a Michigan Democrat, told reporters Democratic leaders in the House had decided to push for a 180-day moratorium on further aid. He said the House would vote next Wednesday. Reuter 
NYSE MEMBERS VOTE TO LIFT LIMIT ON PENALTIES

The New York Stock Exchange said its members overwhelmingly approved a rule change that elminates the limits on fines imposed as a result of disciplinary proceedings. The NYSE said the amendment to its constitution, already approved by its board, must now be approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The NYSE said it currently limits penalties to a maximum of 25,000 dlrs per charge against individuals and 100,000 dlrs per charge against firms. Reuter 
WORLD BANK PRESIDENT EXPECTS BRAZILIAN DEBT PLAN

World Bank President Barber Conable said he was confident Brazil would come up with a debt plan and that the current suspension on commercial bank debt payments would be temporary. He said Brazil's decision to stop payments on its debt had captured the attention of the international community but the country should now produce a plan to reform its overheated economy. "They have everyone's attention but it must be followed by a constructive plan," he said. Conable made his remarks before a group of commercial bankers at a meeting sponsored by the Export-Import Bank and later informally to reporters. Reuter 
U.S. MONEY GROWTH SLOWS SHARPLY, ECONOMISTS SAY

U.S. money supply growth is slowing down rapidly, and some economists believe that all three of the Federal Reserve's main monetary aggregates may even have contracted in February. A contraction is unlikely to be a major concern for the Fed, especially as it would follow a long period of torrid growth, but it could give the central bank extra leeway in the weeks ahead if it decided that a relaxation of monetary policy was justified on account of weakness in the economy. M-1 money supply for the week ended February 23, reported today, rose 1.9 billion dlrs to 738.5 billion, but preliminary forecasts call for a drop next week of around two billion dlrs. The monthly average in January was 737.1 billion dlrs. M-1 makes up about a quarter of M-2 and a fifth of M-3. With other components of M-2, such as money-market deposit accounts and small time deposits, also falling, the stage is set for falls in the broader aggregates too, economists say. M-1 has been largely discredited because its traditional link to economic growth has disintegrated under the impact of falling interest rates and banking deregulation. But the consistent behavior of all three aggregates is likely to impress the Fed, said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Economics Inc. "The Fed has confidence in the aggregates when they're all sending the same signal. This is going to raise some eyebrows at the Fed," McCarthy said. Stephen Slifer of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc added, "We have some very good-looking monetary aggregate data. It's coming in a lot weaker than I thought." The economists were quick to caution that one month's data prove nothing, especially because money growth previously had been so rapid. M-1 in the last 52 weeks has grown at a 16.7 pct rate and at a 19.1 pct rate in the past 13 weeks. Moreover, some of the contraction in M-2 can probably be explained by a shift of funds from savings vehicles into the booming stock market and is thus not an indication of a slowdown in the business expansion. But the data raise the tantalizing possibility for the bond markets that the slowdown in money growth is partly a reflection of a weaker economy that needs more Fed stimulus. McCarthy noted that the slower money growth coincides with signs that the economy is losing momentum as the quarter progresses. "Some of the economic indicators are not as rosy as they were a month ago," he noted. He expects only five to six pct M-1 growth in March and rises in M-2 and M-3 of about four pct. Slifer sees stronger growth of 10 pct in M-1 and five pct or less for M-2 and M-3, but the rates would still be moderate enough to encourage the Fed to ease policy if gross national product for the first quarter proved to be weak. "You'd certainly be more inclined to ease than you would in the past." There was certainly nothing in the Fed's latest balance sheet, however, to suggest a change of policy is already under way, economists said. Discount window borrowings were in line with expectations at 233 mln dlrs a day. Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc argued that an easier Fed policy is unlikely to do much to solve America's most urgent economic problem, its massive trade deficit. Because of the possibility that further dollar depreciation - and thus rising inflation - may be needed to close the trade gap, Brusca said "I'm not prepared to be all that optimistic about the bond market." Reuter 
SILVER STATE MINING <SSMC> SEES PRODUCTION RISE

Silver State Mining Corp said it expects gold production this year to be more than double 1986's 17,458 ounces. The company's 1985 production was 2,050 ounces. Reuter 
ELECTROLUX AND GILLETTE IN JOINT VENTURE

The Gillette Company <GS.N> and Sweden's Electrolux AB <ELUX.ST> said they would form a partnership to commercialise a new technology developed by the U.S. Firm which uses solar cells to generate electricity. Electrolux is interested in harnessing the technology to produce portable domestic appliances and will provide capital and development contracts for the joint venture. The two companies are to establish a laboratory outside Boston to develop what are known as thermophotovoltaic (TPV) technologies that convert hydrocarbon fuels such as gasoline into light and electricity through the use of solar cells. REUTER 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 300,000 to 305,000 head versus 292,000 week ago and 316,000 a year ago. Saturday's hog slaughter is guesstimated at about 30,000 to 55,000 head. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to 130,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago. Saturday's cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 20,000 to 40,000 head. Reuter 
PERMIAN <PBT> RAISES CRUDE PRICES

Permian Corp said that effective march 5 it raised its posted prices for crude oil 50 cts a barrel. The raise brought its posted prices for West texas Intermediate up by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel. West Texas Sour was also raised by 50 cts to 17.00 dlrs a barrel. A Permian spokesman said that the South Louisiana sweet posted prices was also raised 50 cts a barrel to 17.35 dlrs. Reuter 
POSTMASTERS <POST> LISTED ON NASDAQ

Postmasters Inc said its common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ system, effective today. Reuter 
CANADA RULES U.S. CORN INJURING CANADIAN FARMERS, UPHOLDS DUTY 



CANADA RULES U.S. CORN INJURING CANADIAN  FARMERS, UPHOLDS DUTY



U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS PARIS PACT ONLY A START TO GREATER COOPERATION



CANADA UPHOLDS COUNTERVAIL DUTY ON U.S. CORN

The Canadian Import Tribunal ruled today subsidized U.S. corn imports were injurious to Canadian growers and upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 U.S. cts a bushel set earlier this year. The ruling is the result of trade action launched in 1985 by the Ontario Corn Producers Association that contended U.S. subsidies were driving American corn prices below Canadian production costs. A spokesman for the Department of Revenue said a study of the level of the duty will be undertaken in the next six months to determine if it should be adjusted. Reuter 
FEBRUARY U.S. JOBS GAINS SHOW STRONGER ECONOMY

Momentum in th U.S. economy may be picking up given solid across-the board increases in the February U.S. employment report, economists said. U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February, twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a 319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously reported 448,000 increase. "Even if you look at January and February together, this is still a much stronger report than the consensus expectation in the market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation. Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal much larger gains in February U.S. production and income than previously forecast. The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from 34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose 0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week since November 1966, the Commerce Department said. "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a very large increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7 pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4 pct gain in January U.S. industrial production. Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc noted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hour in February from 8.83 dlrs in January. "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this means we'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-vis the wage and salary disbursement," he said. Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income should rise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January. He said the February employment gains are consistent with his firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national product growth forecast of 3.7 pct. Economists agreed that the employment data were negative for the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economy and no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. But most said that the market need not fear tighter policy either. "This report is another reason for the Fed to not consider easing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," he said. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so, but it's most likely they'll sit and wait." "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durable goods were weak in January and now employment is strong." In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct, followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S. retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gap widened to 14.8 billion dlrs. "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of Lehman Goverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending, goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak first quarter GNP growth of one pct," he said. "The employment and production data point to a big inventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourth quarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth." Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000 in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain was accounted for by striking workers in the steel and machinery industries returning to work. Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gains have resulted from an improving trade outlook. Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S. trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exports grew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase in imports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improve in the first quarter. "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter, but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paper products, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods show that trade is improving," Benderley said. "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Some reports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarter GNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct." A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greater part of February's employment gain. Retail services employment rose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 in January, previously reported at 166,000. Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. But this follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously reported 142,000 gain. The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged in February at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at 6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading since March 1980, the Commerce Department noted. "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report," Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease, but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that." Reuter 
BAKER SAYS G-6 PACT JUST A START

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the agreement among industrial nations in Paris last month is only a start in Washington's drive to intensify economic cooperation among leading countries. In a speech to the National Newspaper Association, Baker said "the six steps beginning with the Plaza Agreement and culminating in the Paris Accord, are only a start." He added "we see our role as a steward of a process in which we sit down with our industrial allies to find ways to promote more balanced international growth." The Paris agreements called trade surplus countries to strengthen their growth and on the U.S. to reduce its budget deficit. Under such circumstances, the countries agreed their currencies were within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals. Baker also said he still sees "ominous" signs of pressure for protectionist trade legislation "and this pressure for protectionism is coming from new areas of society." But he also said he believed a coalition was forming that supported free trade. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS THERE HAS BEEN NO CHANGE IN U.S. POLICY ON DOLLAR



FED NOT EXPECTED TO ACT IN MONEY MARKETS

The Federal Reserve is unlikely to operate in the U.S. government securities market during its usual intervention period this morning, economists said. Fed funds opened comfortably at 5-15/16 pct and remained at that level. Yesterday Fed funds averaged 5.99 pct. Reuter 
BAKER SEES BRAZIL/BANKS REACHING AGREEMENT

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said he believes Brazil will strike an agreement with its private creditors. Answering questions from the National Newspaper Association, Baker said "Brazil is not defaulting on its debt," and pointed out its interest payments moratorium was called because of dwindling foreign reserves. He said that based on discussions with Brazilian officials here last week, he believed Brazil's approach to its problems was "nonconfrontational," adding, "We fully expect Brazil will work this out with its private creditors." Baker pointed out Brazil was paying in full and on time its debts to multilateral institutions, the U.S. government and other western creditor governments. The country has declared an interest payments moratorium on 68 billion dlrs of its 108 billion dlr foreign debt and frozen some 15 billion dlrs in trade and interbank deposits by commercial bank creditors at Brazilian institutions. Reuter 
SAS CUTS PEAK-SEASON U.S. DISCOUNT AIR FARES

<Scandinavian Airline System> said it has cut the price of its peak-season Super Apex fares from New York to Scandinavia about 150 dlrs. The airline said there will be comparable savings from other U.S. gateways. The new fares, which are subject to government approval, were introduced so SAS can remain competitive with all scheduled carriers from the United States to Scandinavia, it said. SAS said the price of a round-trip Super Apex ticket from New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Bergen and Gothenburg during the shoulder season -- the month of May and from mid-August to mid-September -- will be 644 dlrs midweek and 694 dlrs on weekends with Stockholm 50 dlrs higher. Reuter 
AMERICAN CAN <AC> TO CHANGE NAME

American Can Co said it plans to change its name to Primerica Corp, subject to approval by shareholders at the April 28 annual meeting. It said its new New York Stock Exchange ticker symbol would be <PA>. American Can sold all its packaging operations -- and rights to the American Can name -- to Triangle Industries Inc <TRI> in November. The company said the new name gives it flexibility as it moves into new areas of enterprise. American Can is now involved in financial services and specialty retailing. Reuter 
MIDMISSISSIPPI RIVER OPENS TODAY FOR SEASON

The Mississippi River is now open for barge traffic up to the Twin Cities in Minnesota after repairs were completed and the first barges moved upstream through Lock and Dam 20 near Quincy, Ill at 0600 CST today, an Army Corps of Engineers spokesman said. About 14 to 15 inches of ice were reported between locks three and four on the upper Mississippi River, but other sections were generally free of ice, the spokesman said. Midwestern weather has been so mild that barges probably could have kept loading at Mid-Mississippi River terminals through the winter, if Lock and Dam 20 had not been scheduled for repairs, he said. The Peoria and La Grange locks on the Illinois River are still scheduled to close July 13, for two months of repairs. Reuter 
FED SETS ONE BILLION DLR CUSTOMER REPO

The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to arrange one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the New York Fed said. Fed funds were trading at 5-15/16 pct at the time of the indirect injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. Reuter 
SUN <SUN> RAISES HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE

Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketing subsidiary said it increased the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today. They said the 0.50 cent increase brings Sun's contract barge price to 49 cts. The recent price hike represents the fifth this week, totalling 4.75 cts. The increases are following sharp spot and futures price rises, the company said. Reuter 
BAKER EXPRESSES DOUBTS ABOUT U.S. STOCK TAX

Treasury Secretary James Baker expressed doubts about a proposal to tax securities transactions as a solution to the budget deficit and said it could hurt financial markets. "If you start taxing markets, it could impair their efficiency," Baker said after a speech to the National Newspaper Association. "The problem is not that Americans are undertaxed. We as a government are overspending," he told reporters. House Speaker Jim Wright (D-Tex) has proposed a transfer tax to be paid by buyers and sellers of stocks. Reuter 
AMAX <AMX> ACCEPTS OFFER FOR AUSTRALIAN INTEREST

AMAX Inc said it has accepted offers to buy its share and option interests in <Australian Consolidated Minerals Ltd>. AMAX said the sale is part of its ongoing program to increase shareholder value. The company did not identify who made the offer, but said the interests involved include 35.2 mln Australian Consolidated shares to be sold for 6.32 Australian dlrs per share and 5.4 mln options to be sold for 4.82 Australian dlrs per option. Reuter 
SHULTZ AND SHEVARNADZE TO MEET IN MOSCOW IN MID-APRIL, U.S. SOURCES SAY



LYNG DISAPPOINTED BY CANADA CORN INJURY DECISION

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said he is "very disappointed" by a Canadian government finding that U.S. corn has injured Ontario Corn growers. "This action is not helpful in the context of the ongoing U.S.-Canada free trade talks or in the new round of multilateral trade negotiations," Lyng said in a statement. The Canadian government today said Ottawa would continue to apply a duty of 84.9 cents per bushel on U.S. corn imports. Lyng said the U.S. made a case that U.S. corn imports are not the cause of any problem of Canadian corn producers, adding that U.S. corn exports to Canada are declining. "Apparently they (Canada) have ignored the fact that Canadian corn and other coarse grain production is rising faster than consumption," Lyng said. Reuter 
SOVIET NEGOTIATOR REPORTS ARMS TALKS BREAKTHROUGH

Chief Soviet arms negotiator Yuli Vorontsov said Soviet-American talks on cutting medium-range nuclear missiles had made a breakthrough. Vorontsov said he expected a treaty would be ready for signing within three to four months following the latest talks in Geneva. He told a news conference here "all the elements point to optimism" and only technical work on treaty language remained outstanding. REUTER 
SHULTZ, SHEVARDNADZE SAID TO MEET IN APRIL

Secretary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnaze will meet in Moscow in mid-April, administration sources said. The sources said they will meet April 13 to 16 and are expected to discuss the full range of U.S.-Soviet issues. But arms control is expected to be the major focus of the talks, with a breakthrough widely expected on removing medium-range nuclear missiles from Europe. Reuter 
SOVIET NEGOTIATOR REPORTS ARMS TALKS BREAKTHROUGH

Chief Soviet arms negotiator Yuli Vorontsov said Soviet-American talks on cutting medium-range nuclear missiles had made a breakthrough. Vorontsov said he expected a treaty would be ready for signing within three to four months following the latest talks in Geneva. He told a news conference here "all the elements point to optimism" and only technical work on treaty language remained outstanding. Reuter 
U.S. WHEAT GROWERS WANT EEP TO SOVIET UNION

The U.S. National Association of Wheat Growers (NAWG) urged the Reagan administration offer the Soviet Union wheat under the export enhancement program (eep). In a letter to Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, NAWG stated its "strong support" for an eep offer to Moscow. "We believe that a solid case continues to exist for Soviet EEP eligibility, and the recently announced and reported Soviet purchases of U.S. corn indicate a Soviet willingness to purchase U.S. grain if it is competitively priced," NAWG said. "Consequently, we believe it is important to renew the U.S. eep offer and do all that is reasonably possible to ensure mutual adherence to the terms of the U.S.-Soviet grain agreement," the letter said. Reuter 
USSR WHEAT BONUS OFFER SAID STILL UNDER DEBATE

The Reagan administration continues to debate whether to offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union, but would need assurances from the Soviets that they would buy the wheat before the subsidy offer would be made, a senior U.S. Agriculture Department official said. "I think it still is under active debate whether or not it would be advisable" to make an the export enhancement offer to the Soviets, Thomas Kay, administrator of the department's Foreign Agriculture Service, told Reuters. "We'd need some assurances from them (the Soviets) that they would buy if offered" the wheat under the subsidy plan, he said. Kay called reports that such an offer was imminent "premature." The Reagan administration's cabinet-level Economic Policy Council is set to meet today to discuss, among other matters, agricultural policy but is not expected to address a wheat subsidy offer to the Soviet Union, administration officials said earlier. Reuter 
CANADA CORN DECISION UNJUSTIFIED - YEUTTER

U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said Canada's finding announced today that U.S. corn imports injure Canadian farmers is "totally unjustified." "U.S. corn exports to Canada are so small that it is inconceivable that they injure Canadian corn farmers by any reasonable measure," Yeutter said in a statement. He said if other countries follow Canada's lead it could result in "a rash of protectionist actions throughout the world." French corn growers have recently indicated they will challenge U.S. corn gluten feed shipments to Europe. Yeutter said the U.S. will examine the Canadian decision closely and if the U.S. believes the decision was not based on facts, "will carefully evaluate appropriate responses." Yeutter did not say what steps the U.S. may take in response. Reuter 
CONTRA LEADER LINKS MYSTERY DLRS TO ARMS SALE

Nicaraguan rebel leader Adolfo Calero has for the first time linked payments received for his forces to a dummy company controlled by former White House aide Oliver North, legal sources said. The company, Lake Resources Inc, was established by North and his ally, retired Air Force major General Richard Secord, and had a Swiss bank account into which proceeds from secret arms sales to Iran were deposited. Calero yesterday made public bank statements showing his group has received 32 mln dlrs since mid-1984, but said he has no idea who donated the money. Calero, head of the Nicaraguan Democratic Force, known by its Spanish initials as FDN, provided the same records to a grand jury investigating the Iran arms scandal that has shaken the Reagan administration. The bank statements he showed reporters ended with March, 1985, so they shed no light on whether Iran arms profits were diverted to contra rebels since shipments of U.S. arms to Iran did not begin until September 1985. But last night, Calero told Cable News Network that he had just discovered deposits made in late October, 1985 by Lake Resources into a contra account in the Cayman Islands. This came at a time when proceeds from the Iran arms sales were being funneled to the Swiss bank account. "I just found out," he said. Legal sources confirmed that Calero had turned over the newly disclosed information, which was brought to his attention after one of his lawyers noticed the two desposits made by Lake Resources buried in the mass of bank records. They said that Calero has promised to review in more detail the bank statements and pass along any further information on possible deposits by the North-Secord groups. The Tower commission said in its report that up to 19.8 mln dlrs from the sale of U.S. weapons to Iran was unaccounted for and may have been diverted to the contras. Calero's FDN is the largest of the contra rebel groups that are fighting to overthrow the left-wing Sandinista government of Nicaragua. On the advice of his lawyer, Calero declined to go into details about what he told the grand jury. Reuter 
PIONEER GROUP <PIOG> UNIT GETS MORE LAND

The Pioneer Group Inc said its 70 pct-owned Teberebie Goldfields Ltd venture has been granted an additional concession of land in Ghana to look for and mine gold. The State Gold Mining Corp of Ghana granted the venture an additional 14.5 square kilometers in Teberebie, Ghana, contiguous to 11.5 square kilometers granted earlier, the company said. The original concession appears to have a substantial amount of gold bearing material containing about 2 grams, or 6/100 ounces, of gold per metric ton. But the venture has no firm estimates on the costs of extracting the gold and no assurances can be given that the reserves can be mined profitably, the company said. It said Teberebie Goldfields has not conducted tests on the newly granted land but added the land seems to be similar in geological characteristics to the original land. Reuter 
PRESIDENT SAYS SHULTZ TO HEAD FOR MOSCOW TALKS

President Reagan announced he is sending Secretary of State George Shultz to Moscow for talks with Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze next month. Arms control is expected to be the major topic. The announcement said the talks will take place April 13-16 and would review "the entirety of our relationship." Reuter 
CRUDE OIL PRICES UP AS STOCKS, OUTPUT FALL

U.S. crude oil prices rose above 18 dlrs a barrel this week and industry analysts said the price could rise another dollar as inventories fall. "OPEC is keeping its production down, and in the cash market there is tight supply of crude with short transportation time to major refining centers," said Daniel McKinley, oil analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. "That could send prices 50 cts to a dollar higher," he added. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate rose to 18.15 dlrs a barrel today, a rise of 1.50 dlrs this week. The rally in oil prices this week came after prices fell in February more than two dlrs from its high of 18.25 dlrs a barrel. "Oil traders were pulling prices down on the assumption that oil stocks were building and OPEC was producing well above its 15.8 mln bpd quota, but now both of those assumptions have come under question," McKinley said. Yesterday the International Energy Agency in its monthly report said that oil stocks in the OECD area, or in industrialized nations, were drawn down by 1.3 mln bpd during the first quarter of this year. IEA estimates that the draw in oil stocks during the first quarter of this year will come largely from oil companies whose inventory levels by April one will be an estimated 326 mln tonnes, or about 74 days consumption. Industry analysts also said the estimate of a 3.5 mln bpd draw in stocks made by Shell Chairman Peter Holmes yesterday fed speculation that other major companies were destocking. Traders said the destocking has come about as a result of a so-called buyers strike, which kept refiners from buying officially priced OPEC oil in an effort to get the organization to offer discounts to the official price. "This struggle between the companies and OPEC is the ultimate game of chicken but it will be resolved relatively soon. I would imagine by about the middle of the month (March)," the general trading manager of an international oil company told Reuters in a telephone interview. For its part OPEC has moved to win this game by cutting excess supplies from the market by a reduction of its own output, traders said. A Reuter survey estimates OPEC output to be 14.7 mln bpd this week. Also, an earthquake in Ecuador yesterday led it to suspend oil exports indefintiely and force majeure its shipments. "This will reduce short-haul availabilities by about 250,000 bpd almost immediately and the longer the suspension continues, the larger the draw in stocks will be for companies expecting it to be there," McKinley said. International oil traders said that other short-haul crudes, such as North Sea Brent, were also scarce because Asian refiners bought the oil after absorbing a lot of the readily available Mideast crudes earlier this week. If this pattern continues then oil companies will bid up the price of oil as they purchase for their refineries, trading managers at several companies told Reuters. But there were skeptics who said they wondered how long OPEC can retain its unity if buyer resistance continues. Stephen Hanke, chief economist at Friedburg Commodity Management, said OPEC production was lower "because of the Saudi cut (to 3.1 mln bpd) and this could spell trouble if it gives other members an incentive to exceed their quotas." He added, "The Saudis will be picking up the tab for other members who produce over their quota, and the drain on the Saudis will continue, forcing them to cut output maybe as low as 2.5 mln bpd to support the 18 dlrs average price," he added. There are also signs of some OPEC crudes being sold in the spot market at below OPEC official prices, traders said. Oil traders said Nigerian Brass River sold for delivery into the U.S. Gulf at a price related to North Sea brent, which traded this week at 17.60 dlrs, far below the official price of 18.92 dlrs for the similar quality Bonny Light. Iranian oil is also surfacing in the U.S. Gulf and the Far East at reported discounts to its 17.50 dlrs official price. "There is a lot of oil priced on government-to-government deals, which are below official prices and this is probably being resold," one international trader said. Reuter 
MGE PLANNING APRIL 6 START UP OF HFCS CONTRACT

The Minneapolis Grain Exchange (MGE) will start trading futures contracts in high fructose corn syrup on April 6 if the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approves the contract as expected next week. Pat Henderson, spokesperson for the MGE, said the exchange expects contract approval at CFTC's Tuesday meeting. It has been under review since the exchange submitted the proposal in December, 1985. The proposed contract is based on 48,000 pound lots of 55-pct high fructose corn syrup, the equivalent of one tank truck of the sweetening agent derived from corn in the wet milling process. The syrup, commonly called HFCS-55, is most commonly used as a sweetener in soft drinks and other beverages. Delivery would be by shipping certificate from production facilities designated by the exchange. The contract, designated by the symbol "HF," would trade from 0900 to 1315 CST. Months traded would correspond with the Chicago corn futures months of March, May, July, September and December. Contract price will be quoted per hundred weight, with a minimum price fluctuation of one cent and maximum fluctuation of one dlr per CWT. "We hope the producers and users of fructose will be actively involved, those producers being the large processors, the corn wet millers, and the users being the beverage bottlers," Henderson said. "But there are potentials for all types of people to use it. There is quite a list of industries that utilize fructose." Reuter 
PIONEER GROUP UNIT GETS MORE GHANA GOLD LAND

The Pioneer Group Inc said its 70 pct-owned Teberebie Goldfields Ltd venture was granted an additional concession of land in Ghana to seek and mine gold. The State Gold Mining Corp of Ghana granted the venture an additional 14.5 square kilometers in Teberebie, Ghana, contiguous to 11.5 square kilometers granted earlier. The original concession appears to have a substantial amount of gold bearing material containing about 2 grams, or 6/100 ounces, of gold per tonne. But the venture has no firm estimate on the costs of extracting the gold and no assurances can be given that the reserves can be mined profitably, the company said. It said Teberebie Goldfields has not conducted tests on the newly granted land but added the land seems to be similar in geological characteristics to the original land. Reuter 
CME SETS MAY 29 START FOR LUMBER FUTURES OPTIONS

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) board of governors announced today the options on Random Length lumber futures will begin trading on May 29. The contract received Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approval on January 21 after being submitted for review last October 13. Initially, only January, March and May delivery months will be listed for trading. The size of the underlying futures contract is 130,000 board feet. Regular trading hours for the contract will be from 0900 to 1305 Central Time. However, on the first day of trading the market will open at 1000. On March 4 the CME board amended the contract to eliminate Christmas Eve expirations for the January option. This amendment has been submited to the CFTC, the CME said. reuter 
IRAN INVESTIGATORS SEEK REAGAN TAPES

The House and Senate committees investigating the Iran arms scandal said they would like to review tapes of phone conversations between President Reagan and White House officials, if such tapes exist. The committees were responding to a magazine article that quoted unidentified "sources with first-hand knowledge of U.S. communications intelligence" as saying there is an archive of recorded conversations among Reagan administration officials, including the president. The article in Progressive magazine also said the government had secretly monitored the home telephone of former National Security adviser Robert McFarlane after he had left government service in late 1985. "According to sources with first hand knowledge of U.S. communications intelligence operations," the story said, "the McFarlane intercept grew out of a program that has produced a still-undisclosed archive of recorded conversations involving ... Reagan, Vice President George Bush, (fired National Security Council aide) Lt Col Oliver North, (former National Security Adviser) Adm John Poindexter, (former White House Chief of Staff) Donald Regan and other key figures in the Iran-contra arms scandal." It said the monitoring was done for security and record purposes by the top-secret National Security Agency (NSA), and was apparently done with the consent of those monitored. But White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater denied one premise of the article, saying, "The National Security Agency said it did not monitor any of McFarlane's conversations." He did not comment on the other recorded conversations the Progressive article said were included in the program. "Clearly we would be interested in taking a look if indeed such tapes exist," a Senate Iran committee aide told Reuters in response to the magazine article. A spokesman for the House Iran committee said the panel would consider a request to the NSA for copies of the telephone-tap archive described in the article. Several legislators said the tapes, if it is confirmed that they exist, could prove invaluable to the special House and Senate committees that were created in January to investigate Reagan's most damaging political crisis. "This sort of evidence could be absolutely crucial in getting to the bottom of the affair," said Rep. Robert Kastenmeier, a Wisconsin Democrat and member of the House Intelligence Committee, told Reuters. Reuter 
AMEX STARTS TRADING ECOLOGY/ENVIRONMENT <EEI>

The American Stock Exchange said it has started trading one mln Class A common shares of newly-public Ecology and Environment Inc, which provides services related to the management of hazardous and non-haxardous wastes. Reuter 
JAMAICA CORRECTS SIZE OF PARIS CLUB RESCHEDULING

The Jamaican Information Service said the rescheduling agreement reached with the Paris Club of western government creditors covers 125.5 mln dlrs of debt and not 25.5 mln dlrs as it announced yesterday. Under the accord, clinched on Thursday in Paris, 100 pct of the principal and 85 pct of the interest owed between April 1, 1986, and March 31, 1988, is being rescheduled. The debts due in 1986 are being treated as arrears and will be rescheduled over six years with 2-1/2 years' grace, while the rest of the debt will be rescheduled over 10 years with a 5-1/2 year grace period. Reuter 
EARTHWORM <WORM> ACCEPTS SOVIET INVITATION

Earthworm Tractor Co Inc said it accepted an invitation from the Ministry of Construction, Road Building and Municipal Machinery to visit the Soviet Union next week to explore trading construction and liquefied natural gas equipment. The company said a representative of Prudential Bache Trade Corp will be part of the delegation. Reuter 
OFFICIAL SAYS REAGAN AGAINST EARLY SDI DEPLOYMENT

A senior Defense Department official said he believed President Reagan has decided against an early deployment of the controversial anti-missile defense system known as "Star Wars." But the official, Assistant Defense Secretary Richard Perle, told a luncheon Reagan could decide within a few weeks to adopt a less restrictive interpretation of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) treaty to justify a move towards wider "Star Wars" testing and development. "I think the president has made a decision not to proceed with an early deployment of SDI," said Perle, referring to the Strategic Defense Initiative, as Reagan's anti-missile project is formally called. Reuter 
U.S. FEEDGRAINS GROUP ATTACKS CANADA CORN RULING

The U.S. Feedgrains Council is surprised and disappointed by the Canadian Import Tribunal's decision that imports of corn from the U.S. are materially injuring Canadian corn producers, a council spokesman said. "At a time when the world is attempting to liberalize trade in the new rounnd of multilateral negotiations, it is incomprehensible that a country that stands to gain so much from the reduction in agricultural trade barriers would threaten that process by caving in to pressures for protectionism," council president Darwin E. Stolte said. Canada's finding will strain the U.S./Canadian trading relationship, could damage the future of U.S. feedgrains support for the free trade negotiations, and also negatively impact farm trade reform with other nations, the council said. Reuter 
USDA TO CONDUCT SURVEY FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA

U.S. Agriculture Department animal health officials are conducting a national survey of live-bird markets and auctions to check for signs of avian influenza, an infectious viral disease of poultry, the department said. The survey will locate poultry dealers and live-bird markets that sell live birds directly to the consumer and once the dealers and markets are identified, there will be tests to determine any past or present exposure to avian influenza viruses, it said. In 1983-84, an outbreak of avian influenza in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey cost taxpayers 65 mln dlrs to control and required the destruction of more than 17 mln birds, it said. The survey is expected to be completed by April 15. Reuter 
LYNG SAYS NO DECISIONS TAKEN AT CABINET COUNCIL

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said no decisions were taken today at a White House Economic Policy Council meeting. Speaking to reporters on his return from the meeting, Lyng said only about five minutes of the session dealt with agriculture issues. "It was not a decision making meeting," Lyng said. Aides to Lyng earlier said the administration's agriculture legislative proposals would be the farm-related topic on the agenda. Lyng would not comment on what farm issues were discussed. Asked how he would respond to farm groups and Congressmen urging the U.S. to offer a wheat bonus to the Soviet Union, Lyng said he would be listen but be "non-committal." Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 5

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 5 to 3.467 billion dlrs from 3.939 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 14.350 billion dlrs from 14.391 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 17.817 billion dlrs on March 5 compared with 18.330 billion dlrs on March 4. Reuter 
NICARAGUA, ROMANIA, PARAGUAY LOSE TRADE RIGHTS

President Reagan formally ended preferential duty-free trade treatment for exports from Nicaragua, Romania and Paraguay under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP). He took the action after determining that the three countries are not taking steps to give their workers internationally recognized rights. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter had announced the intended action on January 2. The United States conducts no trade with Nicaragua and very little trade with Romania and Paraguay. Reuter 
U.S. FEEDGRAIN 0/92 SUPPORTERS EVALUATE POSITION

Advocates of a 0/92 plan for feedgrains will likely delay offering their proposals if a disaster aid bill before the House Agriculture Committee is scaled back to include only 1987 winter wheat, congressional sources said. The disaster aid bill, introduced by Rep. Glenn English (D-Okla.), sparked sharp controversy with its proposals to implement a 0/92 program for 1987 wheat and 1988 winter wheat. An agreement has been reached to trim the bill back to 1987 wheat, but supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains plan said even that scaled-down version would not be equitable for farmers. Unless the English bill pertains only to 1987 winter wheat, it is more than a simple disaster payment and feedgrains should be treated equally, they said. If the bill is narrowed to just winter wheat, then supporters of a 0/92 feedgrains amendment will probably not offer their proposals next week, sources said. English has agreed to support an amendment by Rep. Charles Stenholm (R-Tex) to narrow the bill to 1987 wheat only, but whether he would also back a further reduction is unclear. Agricultural aides to English said the congressman's first choice is to make the option available to all 1987 wheat farmers. However, if the political reality is that disaster aid for winter wheat farmers would be unavailable because of controversy over spring wheat, then English might consider an even greater cutback in the bill, they said. Under a 0/92 plan, farmers could forego planting and still receive 92 pct of deficiency payments. Rep. Arlan Stangeland (R-Minn.) and Harold Volkmer (D-Mo.) have both expressed interest in expanding the English bill to include a 0/92 program for feedgrains. An aide said Stangeland does not want to reopen the farm bill, but to be fair to all crops. Only a small percentage of spring wheat farmers would likely sign up for 0/92 since the incentives to plant are greater than to idle the land, economists said. Opponents to a 0/92 feedgrains program argue it is premature to make major changes in the farm bill and that the House Agriculture Committee needs to study more closely the impacts of such a program. Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 618 MLN DLRS IN FEB 25 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 618 MLN DLRS

Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 618 mln dlrs to 278.88 billion dlrs in the week ended February 25, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 897 mln dlrs to 281.23 billion dlrs. Reuter 
BRAZIL CRISIS SPURS RETHINK OF DEBT STRATEGY

Brazil's economic crisis is forcing a wholesale re-examination of the established strategy for dealing with developing-country debt, leading bankers say. While finance minister Dilson Funaro is unlikely to succeed in his attempt at seeking an outright political solution to the debt problem, Brazil's suspension of interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt has convinced at least some bankers that new ideas are needed. "The time has come to look at the alternatives," one seasoned debt rescheduler said. Even before Brazil's move, the difficulty in syndicating the 77 billion dlr financing package for Mexico agreed to in principle last October was prompting top bankers to examine the way they are managing the debt crisis. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker, too, spoke recently of "debt fatigue" and the need to breathe new life into debt rescheduling procedures. There are already signs of change. Japanese banks are setting up a jointly owned firm to which they will transfer some LDC loans in a bid to strengthen their balance sheets, improve financial management and get tax breaks. But bankers said a move toward a greater governmental role will be gradual. "The process is such that you cannot expect tangible progress in a short period of time," one banker said. Certainly, Funaro got a frosty reception in Washington and several European capitals in the past week when he called on government officials to explain Brazil's crusade for a political dialogue on debt. Assistant U.S. Treasury Secretary David Mulford, for instance, criticized what he called large-scale solutions such as debt forgiveness or the creation of new multilateral lending agencies. "While such approaches may have some political appeal, they are impractical and ultimately counterproductive," Mulford told a House subcommittee this week. He could have added that any proposal that might be construed as a bail-out of U.S. banks would be a non-starter in Congress. But bankers said the Reagan Administration could promote accounting and regulatory changes to foster debt-equity swaps and debt securitization and to enable banks to consider interest capitalization as an alternative to new loans. Experts say the government must also make it easier for banks gradually to write down their third-world loan books. Mulford, in his Congressional testsimony, urged the banks to explore different options. "The banks should be encouraged to look at the so-called menu approach," he said. Bankers said the aim would be to keep the loan syndicates intact or, conversely, to allow small banks to write off their exposure in a way that is not detrimental to major lenders. Big banks say it is unfair that small creditors continue to receive interest on old debt even if they do not contribute to new loans. In effect, large banks say they are making new loans that fund the interest payments on the old debt. To solve this problem - and to streamline the cumbersome negotiating process - Argentina has revived the idea of "exit bonds", which would be issued at a discount to small creditors in exchange for their existing debt, bankers said. The banks would be rid of the loans but would have to recognize a loss. Amid the swirl of new ideas, even the role of the commercial bank advisory committees has come under scrutiny. The principle of consensus on which the panels operate was challenged recently when Citibank - ironically, the original architect of the committee system - stubbornly refused for a time to endorse financing offers to the Philippines and Chile. The strains have not gone unnoticed in Washington. "There does seem to be a lot of speculation about the frailty of the bank advisory committees," a U.S. official said. Brazil's Funaro heavily criticized the panels in London on Monday, charging that they are unresponsive to new ideas and that U.S. banks are over-represented on them. Hannes Androsch, chairman of Austria's Creditanstalt-Bankverein, said there was some truth to the charge. "Sentiment is growing in Europe that we're no longer prepared to bail out the U.S. banks," he told reporters in New York this week. While U.S. bankers obviously see things differently, some have started to wonder whether the advisory committee is still the right tool for the job. "The debt crisis has probably evolved beyond the capacity of commercial banks alone, at least in some cases," one top New York rescheduler said. But, with governments unable or unwilling to play a larger role, bankers see no alternative to the advisory committee. "It's the worst form of government there is apart from all the others," one banker said, paraphrasing former British prime minister Winston Churchill's opinion about democracy. Reuter 
U.S. TO SELL ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT TO S. KOREA

The United States plans to sell 84 mln dlrs in electronic equipment to South Korea to upgrade that country's Hawk anti-aircraft missiles, the Reagan administration announced. The sale of 28 modification kits to upgrade the I-Hawk (Improved Hawk) missiles already in South Korea is expected to become official in 30 days without objection from Congress. Prime contractor on the sale is the Raytheon Corp <RTN>, which builds the Hawk medium-range missiles. Reuter 
AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS TO BE OVERHAULED IN 1988

The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, announced at this year's American Pork Congress, APC, that the Congress and trade show will be divided into two parts in 1988. Next years APC, held in Atlanta, will be a business session only and will continue to be the first week of March. The trade show is being changed into a new international event called the World Pork Expo. The first expo will be held in June 1988 in Des Moines with an expanded format, they said. Executive vice-president Orville Sweet said the decision to spilt the show and Congress came about because there are producers who never get to see the trade show floor. "It makes sense that we divide the business session from the trade show," Sweet said. Reuter 
ICO <ICO> TO BE DELISTED FROM AMEX

ICO Inc said its common stock will be removed from trading on the American Stock Exchange because it failed to meet certain exchange guidelines, including net worth requirements. The company, which has been unprofitable for three out of the last four years, said its stock will be delisted from the AMEX on March 13 and will begin trading on the Boston Stock Exchange on March 16. Reuter 
EGYPT TO RECEIVE 115 MLN DLR CASH GRANT

The United States said it was transferring 115 mln dlrs in aid to Egypt as a cash grant to help boost its ailing economy. The funds are part of 815 mln dlrs in economic aid voted by Congress for 1987. State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley stressed that the transfer was not unexpected, and told reporters "We simply want to point out our continued support for Egypt's reform and the efforts they are taking to reform the economy and create economic growth." Reuter 
EGYPT TO RECEIVE 115 MLN DLR CASH GRANT

The United States said it was transferring 115 mln dlrs in aid to Egypt as a cash grant to help boost Cairos' ailing economy. The funds are part of 815 mln dlrs in economic aid voted by Congress for 1987. State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley stressed that the transfer was not unexpected, and told reporters "We simply want to point out our continued support for Egypt's reform and the efforts they are taking to reform the economy and create economic growth." Reuter 
HOGAN SYSTEMS <HOGN> GETS AMSTERDAM CONTRACT

Hogan Systems Inc said it signed a software contract with Amsterdam Rotterdam Bank N.V. The contract is valued at about two mln dlrs over the new two years, Hogan said. Reuter 
LYNG SAYS EXPORT BONUS COULD BE FUNDED FROM CCC

Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said the export enhancement program (eep) could be funded from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) if the one billion dlrs appropriated for export bonus by Congress is exhausted. Lyng told reporters lack of funding should not be a constraint on the program because USDA has the authority to use CCC funds to continue the program. He noted Congress authorized up to 1.5 billion dlrs for eep. Earlier this week, Leo Mayer, associate administrator of USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service, said 865 mln dlrs of the one billion in appropriated funds for eep have been used. USDA officials said if all the eep offers announced are accepted by importing countries the one billion dlrs would be exhausted soon. Some Congressional sources have expressed concern that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) might try to block USDA from seeking more than the one billion dlrs appropriated for the program. These sources suggested the lack of funds might force USDA to halt the program, which some commodity groups believe has given a boost to U.S. exports of some farm products, particularly wheat and wheat flour. However, Lyng's comments seemed to suggest that USDA could at least temporarily continue the program using CCC funds and would not be forced to curtail eep. Reuter 
U.S. CORN GROWERS BLAST CANADA CORN RULING

Canada's ruling in favor of a duty on U.S. corn was a keen disappointment to the National Corn Growers Association and has set a dangerous precedent for other nations to follow, said Mike Hall, lobbyist for the association. "The French corn growers will clearly charge ahead now and just change corn to corn gluten feed" in their complaint, Hall told Reuters. A Canadian government agency ruled today that U.S. farm policies are causing injury to Canadian corn farrmers and supported an earlier imposed countervailing duty of about 85 cts per bushel. "This was cleary a political decision," Hall said. "The amount of corn we export to Canada is insignificant." The unexpected ruling appeared to be based on the agrument that Canada bases its corn prices on U.S. futures prices and that American farm policy has driven down these prices, thus causing lower prices to Canadian farmers and larger government payments through its farm stabilization program, Hall said. Hall said this is a new definition for injury, but that other nations might also now apply this same argument to attack U.S. farm programs. The French corn growers could now charge that U.S. farm programs create an unfair subsidy for corn gluten feed, Hall said. The French have long wanted to control the imports of U.S. corn gluten feed into the community, saying that the imported feed was unfairly displacing European grain. Reuter 
U.S. FARM PROGRAMS HELP CANADIAN CORN PRODUCERS

An American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF) official said that far from hurting Canadian corn producers, U.S. farm programs benefit all foreign producers. AFBF president Dean Kleckner made the comments in response to the ruling earlier today by the Canadian Import Tribunal that subsidized U.S. corn imports were injurious to Canadian growers. The tribunal upheld a countervailing duty of 84.9 U.S. cents a bushel. "Farm Bureau specialists went to Ottawa and testified previous U.S. farm programs have actually benefited all foreign producers by reducing the amount of corn grown in the U.S. (and losing market share), while exerting an upward influence on the price of corn Worldwide," he said. Reuter 
POSITIVE OUTLOOK TEMPERED IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES

Higher oil prices and stronger than expected U.S. employment growth led to sharp losses in U.S. interest rate futures and diminished what had been a positive chart outlook, financial analysts said. The increase of 319,000 in non-farm payroll employment during February was above market expectations for a rise of 170,000 to 200,000 jobs and sparked selling in Treasury bond futures that drove the June contract through key technical support at 101-2/32 at the opening Friday, they noted. "I don't like that fact that we had a close below 101," said Prudential Bache analyst Fred Leiner. The 101-2/32 level in the June bond contract had been the top of a three-month trading range, which when penetrated during the rally Wednesday led to bullish forecasts by chartists. But analysts called it a false breakout on the weekly charts when the June bond closed at 100-10/32 Friday. Some also forecast that the high of the week at 101-19/32 may signal a bearish double top formation portending steep losses. "I tend to go along with the double top scenario," said Northern Futures analyst Eileen Rico. Rico noted that the possible formation, along with the fact that the rally of the last two weeks in bond futures has occurred on relatively low volume, were negative signals. Despite what could be a negative chart outlook, Leiner remains cautiously optimistic, and June bonds should find support between 100 and 99-16/32 next week. The optimistic outlook, as well as Leiner's expectation that the yield curve will flatten in the near term, is based on an improving inflation outlook. With the dollar stable and economic data giving the Federal Reserve little room to ease monetary policy, "the inflation outlook is improving," Leiner said, and that should lead to relatively stronger bond prices than bill and Eurodollar prices. Still, Leiner noted that the recent rise in oil prices remains a concern for the inflation outlook. Oil rose during the week on reports that OPEC nations were maintaining production quotas and official prices, and got an extra boost Friday due to the suspension of oil exports from Ecuador after an earthquake Thursday. "The runup in crude oil will be a short-lived phenomenon," said Carroll McEntee and McGinley analyst Brian Singer. The rise in oil prices over the past week has been largely "media induced," Singer said. He noted that even though OPEC production may be within quotas, "oil stocks are at tremendously high levels." Although the Ecuador situation could cause a delay, oil prices will eventually decline to the lows of late February, he said, and that will be a supportive influence for bond prices. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY PROPOSES SOME S. AFRICAN IMPORTS

The Treasury proposed allowing temporary imports of South African uranium ore and uranium oxide until July 1 under certain conditions pending clarification of anti-apartheid laws passed by Congress last fall. The proposal to be published in the Federal Register next week requests written congressional and public comment within 60 days and deals with uranium ore and oxide that is imported for U.S. processing and exporting to third countries. The Treasury said it proposed allowing the temporary imports because it felt Congress had not intended when it passed the comprehensive South African sanctions bill last fall -- overriding President Reagan's veto -- to hurt U.S. industry. "The domestic uranium conversion industry and the federal government's enrichment industry could be seriously injured in a manner not intended by Congress if the . . . import ban on uranium ore and oxide were implemented to bar imports for processing and export through a mistaken interpretation of the act," the Treasury brief said. The Treasury said an outright U.S. ban of uranium ore and oxide might cause foreign electric utilities to divert their South African origin ore and oxide to other countries including the Soviet Union for processing. Treasury said it would allow imports of the South African ore and oxide until July 1 for processing and re-export "provided that the imported ore or oxide is accompanies by a license for importation issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission." The Treasury brief also proposed allowing U.S.-origin goods to be imported temporarily from South African state-controlled organizations for repair or servicing in the United States. "The U.S. Customs will allow such importation to be made under bond," the brief said. The South African sanctions law, enacted by the United States to protest the apartheid laws of racial segregation practiced by South Africa's white minority government, prohibited imports of uranium ore and oxide, iron and steel, coal and textiles at the end of 1986. Reuter 
BMC INDUSTRIES <BMC> UNIT GETS SOVIET CONTRACT

BMC Industries Inc said its West German subsidiary has received a contract valued at about eight mln dlrs from the Soviet Union to supply engineering and manufacturing services to build a television parts plant. The company's Precision Etched Products unit in Muellheim, West Germany, signed the contract to provide services that will enable the Soviets to build a plant to make television tube aperture masks, it said. A BMC spokesman told Reuters the one-year contract will be for about eight mln dlrs. The contract is the first BMC has had with the Soviet Union in 10 years ago, he said. The project has received the necessary U.S. government clearances, he said. BMC also said it has entered into a joint venture agreement with Italy to produce finished single vision plastic eyewear lenses using a new manufacturing process. It would provide no further details. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY PROPOSES S.AFRICAN URANIUM IMPORTS

The U.S. Treasury proposed allowing temporary imports of South African uranium ore and uranium oxide until July 1 under certain conditions pending clarification of anti-apartheid laws passed by Congress last fall. The Treasury said it proposed allowing the temporary imports because it felt Congress had not intended when it passed the comprehensive South African sanctions bill last fall -- overriding President Reagan's veto -- to hurt U.S. industry. The Treasury said an outright U.S. ban of uranium ore and oxide might cause foreign electric utilities to divert their South African origin ore and oxide to other countries including the Soviet Union for processing. The Treasury also proposed allowing U.S.-origin goods to be imported temporarily from South African state-controlled organizations for repair or servicing in the U.S. The South African sanctions law, enacted by the U.S. to protest the apartheid laws of racial segregation practiced by South Africa's white minority government, prohibited imports of uranium ore and oxide, iron and steel, coal and textiles at the end of 1986. Reuter 
PAPER SAYS INDICTMENTS IN IRAN CASE EXPECTED

The special prosecutor in the Iran arms scandal is expected to bring indictments that could include felony charges against senior Reagan administration officials, the New York Times reported. It quoted law enforcement officials with knowledge of the investigation as saying special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, who is investigating the scandal, was focusing on three areas. The paper identified these as conspiracy to defraud the government, obstructing justice and making false statements to the government. It said the prosecutor had not ruled out any suspects, including current and former government officials. But the paper said Walsh, in his investigation of the sale of arms to Iran and the diversion of funds to the U.S.-backed contra rebels in Nicaragua, was running short of time. This was because Congress has begun granting immunity to key figures in the affair to speed up congressional investigations. The paper quoted one official as saying that, while obstruction of justice was usually hard to prove, evidence of a cover-up "may have been comically obvious here." REUTER 
U.S. TO ALLOW TEMPORARY IMPORTS OF S.A. URANIUM

The Treasury Department said it would temporarily permit imports of South African uranium ore and oxide pending clarification of anti-apartheid sanctions laws passed by Congress last fall. The decision was announced late Friday. It applies, until July 1, to uranium ore and oxide imported into the U.S. for processing and re-export to third countries. The Treasury said it took the action because it felt that when Congress passed the comprehensive South African sanctions bill last fall over President Reagan's veto it had not intended to hurt U.S. industry. In addition, the Treasury said it would permit U.S.-made goods to be imported temporarily from South African state-controlled organizations for repair or servicing. Reuter 
PAPER SAYS INDICTMENTS IN IRAN CASE EXPECTED

The special prosecutor in the Iran arms scandal is expected to bring indictments that could include felony charges against senior Reagan administration officials, the New York Times reported. It quoted law enforcement officials with knowledge of the investigation as saying special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, who is investigating the scandal, was focusing on three areas. The paper identified these as conspiracy to defraud the government, obstructing justice and making false statements to the government. It said the prosecutor had not ruled out any suspects, including current and former government officials. MORE 
U.S. AIDES SEE MOSCOW AGREEING TO ARMS CHECK PACT

Senior U.S. Arms control officials said they were optimistic the United States and Soviet Union could reach agreement on ways to verify a pact to eliminate medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe. Chief U.S. Arms control negotiator Max Kampelman said on the NBC television network a fair pact would be hard to negotiate, but, "We are determined to do it." Assistant Secretary of Defence for international security policy Richard Perle said he thought the two sides could agree on a method to ensure each side was honouring a missile pact. President Reagan said on Friday that Secretary of State George Shultz would go to Moscow next month for talks on arms control and a possible U.S.-Soviet summit meeting. The decision to send Shultz to Moscow followed an announcement by Soviet leader Mikhael Gorbachev that he was willing to separate elimination of medium-range missiles in Europe from his demand for curbs on U.S. Development of a Strategic Defence Initiative (SDI) anti-missile system. Kampelman said the United States and the Soviet Union both had a general definition of so-called "intrusive" or on-site inspection of a pact, but details would be tough to work out. Reuter 
API REPORTS SHARP FALL IN DRILLINGS

Estimated oil and gas drilling completions in the United States dropped by almost 41 per cent in 1986 from 1985, the American Petroleum Institute said. API, an industry group, said that of the 42,387 wells completed last year, a total of 19,741 were oil wells, 8,645 were natural gas wells and 14,001 were dry holes. In 1985, a total of 71,539 wells were drilled - 36,834 oil wells, 13,036 gas wells and 21,669 dry holes. reuter 
POEHL SAYS FURTHER RATE CUT POSSIBLE - SOURCES

Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told a closed investment symposium that West Germany could cut leading interest rates again if the United States makes a similar move, banking sources said. The sources were reporting Poehl's remarks at a symposium in Duesseldorf last week organised by Deutsche Bank Ag. Press representatives were not invited. The sources, speaking separately, said Poehl told about 200 bankers in reply to questions that a cut in U.S. Interest rates would give room for a matching measure in Germany. "It was a definite hint at lower German interest rates," said one banker who attended the symposium. A Bundesbank spokesman said the central bank would have no comment on the reported remarks, made at the private meeting. But, according to a second source, who also declined to be identified, Poehl's comments were seen by bankers present as a direct pointer to further moves by the central bank to defend German industry from an additional revaluation of the mark. "He said if the Americans drop their interest rates then the Bundesbank would also drop them. He said that quite clearly," the second source said. In reply to questions, Poehl also said the half-point cut in the discount and Lombard rates on January 22 came after the U.S. Had signalled it would be prepared to attend a meeting to discuss the level of the dollar on condition Germany made such a move in advance, the sources said. Asked if American authorities could have been persuaded, by cuts in German rates, to come to the bargaining table as early as last September, one of the sources quoted Poehl as saying, "No, they wouldn't have been. We checked that." The Paris meeting of the Group of Six industrial nations took place exactly one month after the German cut in rates. Poehl emphasised in his comments the very close talks between central banks before and after the G-6 meeting, saying that financial markets had not fully realised the significance of the Paris session and the U.S. Agreement to stem further falls in the value of the dollar, the sources said. For the first time all participants at the summit agreed that a further fall in the dollar would be harmful for all world economies, including the U.S., Poehl had said. The sources said the tone of Poehl's comments boosted growing sentiment that the dollar would be stabilised around current levels by international central bank cooperation. One source said Poehl's remarks also underlined the fact that the Bundesbank was now more prepared to be accommodative in monetary policy in order to prevent a further slowdown in West Germany's economic growth. Poehl and other Bundesbank officials have in the past stressed that the German central bank had no direct responsibility for growth and was solely concerned with combatting inflation. This led, for instance, to the introduction of a tighter monetary stance from the beginning of December until the half-point cut in rates in late January. The sources quoted Poehl as saying that the current overshooting of the German monetary target would not directly respark inflation. The Bundesbank was not obliged to react immediately whenever such overshooting occurs. Latest data for central bank money stock, the Bundesbank's main measure of money supply, showed the measure was growing at 7-1/2 pct in January, outside its three to six pct 1987 target. Share prices rose in very active trading today, with dealers reporting that Poehl's remarks, coupled with a bullish outlook on stock prices from Deutsche at the same symposium, brought in strong bargain hunting at current low levels. REUTER 
ADDITIONAL CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR HUNGARY

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has authorized an additional 8.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees for sales of vegetable protein meals to Hungary for fiscal year 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The additional guarantees increase the vegetable protein meal credit line to 16.0 mln dlrs and increases the cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for agricultural products to 23.0 mln dlrs from 15.0 mln, it said. The department also announced an extension of the export period from September 30, 1987, to December 31 for sales of vegetable protein meals. To be eligible for the credit guarantees all sales must be registered before export but not later than September 30. Reuter 
CBT, CME HEADS TO ADDRESS CFTC COMMITTEE

The heads of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, are to address a meeting of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's financial products advisory committee March 11 in Chicago, CFTC said. CBT Chairman Karsten Mahlmann will present the objectives and views of the CBT's ad hoc committee on off exchange trading issues, CFTC said. CME President William Brodsky is set to discuss current issues involving equity index markets, including factors affecting price volatility, changes in settlement procedures, margin changes and price limits. The CFTC committee, headed by Commissioner Robert Davis, examines financial futures market issues. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 285,000 to 300,000 head versus 292,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 125,000 to 131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago. Reuter 
STUDY SAYS U.S., CANADA PACT WOULD SPUR ECONOMIES

A free trade pact between the United States and Canada could spur the economies of both sides substantially, according to a study released by the Institute for International Economics. The study, by Paul Wonnacott, said a successful conclusion to the free trade talks now under way could raise Canada's gross national product by more than five pct and expand U.S. export's by about seven pct. He said the pact could resolve the knotty issue of government subsidies, end curbs on trade in services and investments and pave the way for new global talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The United States and Canada - the world's two biggest trading partners with cross border shipments of about 150 billion dlrs a year - opened free trade talks last June. They are aiming for a pact by next October. Wonnacott, an economics professor at the Univerity of Maryland, said an agreement should include: - Elimination of tariffs between the two countries, phased in over a five to 10-year period; - Equal access to federal government procurement in the two countries, replacing current "Buy America" and "Buy Canada" provisions with a "Buy North America" provision; - Fewer restrictions in trade in services, chiefly finance and transportation; - A commitment not to screen foreign investments in favor domestic producers; - A commission to resolve bilateral trade disputes. Wonnacott said that to resolve the subsidy problem, the two sides should permit export subsidies of exports of up to 2.0 or 2.5 pct without imposing coutervailing duties. The limit on subsidies is now 0.5 pct. He proposed that any attempt to impose new duties to offset subsidies should go first a special disputes commission for resolution at an early stage. Wonnacott said "bilateral free trade would contribute to the efficiency of the North American economies and to their competitiveness in facing overseas producers. He said it would it would open U.S. markets to Canadian goods and enable them to benefit from the economies of mass production. Benefits to the United States would be fewer than those to Canada proportionately, he said, because of the already large U.S. gross national product. Wonnacott said also that a U.S.-Canada pact in such areas as export subsidies and the creation of a dispute commission could set an example for the current attempt by GATT to write new and more liberal global trading regulations. Reuter 
CBT, CME HEADS TO ADDRESS CFTC COMMITTEE

The heads of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, are to address a meeting of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's financial products advisory committee March 11 in Chicago, CFTC said. CBT Chairman Karsten Mahlmann will present the objectives and views of the CBT's ad hoc committee on off exchange trading issues, CFTC said. CME President William Brodsky is set to discuss current issues involving equity index markets, including factors affecting price volatility, changes in settlement procedures, margin changes and price limits. The CFTC committee, headed by Commissioner Robert Davis, examines financial futures market issues. Reuter 
U.S. RULING ON BRAZIL FCOJ MAY COME TOMORROW

A decision on final dumping duties on frozen orange juice from Brazil may not be issued until tomorrow, Commerce Department officials said. They said the department has until midnight tonight to set the duty but may not make the finding public until tomorrow. A preliminary duty of 8.54 pct was set October 17, 1986. The final ruling will be based on more detailed information, the officials said. Reuter 
U.S. MINT SEEKING 4,784,000 LBS ZINC

The U.S. Mint said it is seeking offers on 4,784,000 lbs of special high-grade zinc that it intends to purchase. It said selling offers will be due at 1100 hrs EST, March 24. The Mint said two increments of 1,300,000 lbs each are for delivery the weeks of April 13 and april 20 to Ball Corp, Greeneville, Tenn., and two increments of 1,092,000 lbs each are to be delivered the weeks of April 20 and April 27 to LaSalle Rolling Mills, LaSalle, Ill. Firms, in submitting offers, may elect to receive payment from the Mint by standard check or by wire transfer. Awards will be based on whichever method is most cost advantageous to the goverment at the time the awards are determined. The offers will have a minimum acceptance period of 10 calendar days, the Mint said. Reuter 
U.S. HAS TO MIDNIGHT TO SET ORANGE JUICE DUTIES

A decision on final dumping duties on frozen orange juice from Brazil may not be issued until tomorrow, Commerce Department officials said. They said the department has until midnight tonight to set the duty, but may not make the finding public until tomorrow. A preliminary duty of 8.54 pct was set last Oct. 17. The final duty will be based on more detailed information, the officials said. reuter 
GALE FORCE WINDS BUFFET GREAT LAKES

The National Weather Service said warnings of gale force winds remained in effect over lakes Erie, Huron and Michigan. Also, warnings have been posted for large waves and beach erosion along the shores of the Lakes. Winds gusting to 45 mph caused four to six foot waves along the western and southern shores of Lake Michigan during the morning. Advisories for low wind chill temperatures have also been posted across portions of upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Early morning gusty winds brought the wind chill to 15 and 25 degrees below zero. Freezing rain was scattered over central Colorado by mid morning, also over central Kansas and northeast Illinois. Snow reached from south central Montana across Wyoming, western Nebraska and western Kansas. Snow also extended across northern Wisconsin, upper Michigan and northern lower Michigan. Rain reached along the northern Pacific Coast, across northwest Utah, Maryland, Deleware, Virginia, the Carolinas, Georgia and northern Alabama. Reuter 
PAPER SAYS POINDEXTER MAY LINK REAGAN TO FUNDS

President Reagan's denial that he knew proceeds from Iran arms sales were diverted to Nicaraguan contra rebels might be challenged by his former national security adviser, according to the Washington Post. The paper said yesterday that John Poindexter, who resigned last November when the illegal transfer of up to 20 mln dlrs was disclosed, was ready to break the silence he has so far maintained over the affair. The Post said he might tell a special Senate committee investigating the Iran scandal that he told Reagan twice in 1986 that money from Iran sales was being used for aid to the contras. It said the panel was considering granting Poindexter immunity from prosecution over the fund diversion, which was illegal under a Congressional ban in force at the time against aid for the contras. Poindexter has so far invoked the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution which protects people from giving evidence which could be self-incriminating. Reagan has said he authorized the sale of arms to Iran in the hope of establishing links with Iranian moderates, but has denied knowing that proceeds were ending up in Nicaraguan rebel hands. A White House spokesman had no comment on the Post story, but David Abshire, who is coordinating White House handling of the affair, said Reagan would never approve any illegal action. Abshire, on the CBS television show "Face the Nation," did not comment directly on the Post story, but said: "He (Reagan) is deeply honest, he is deeply dedicated, he tells the truth and when he says he has no knowledge, he has no knowledge." The Post quoted a source close to Reagan as saying the White House expected Poindexter "will say he had direction and authority, directly or indirectly," from the president for the diversion of funds. The paper said the former security adviser's testimony could damage the president's claim he was unaware of the funds diversion. It quoted a legal source as saying Poindexter and his lawyers planned to contend that twice in 1986 he told Reagan that the arms sales were generating money for the "contras." The paper quoted the source as saying Poindexter did not tell Reagan there was an illegal diversion of funds, but that help for the contras was "an ancillary benefit" of the sales. The Post's sources also said the Senate committee could grant immunity from prosecution this month to Oliver North, who was fired from the National Security Council on the same day that Poindexter resigned. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD TEMPORARY RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. Most economists said the Fed will add 1.5 to two billion dlrs of temporary reserves via customer repurchase agreements, but some said there is a slim chance the Fed will inject permanent reserves via three-day system repurchase agreements. Federal funds opened at 6-1/16 pct and firmed to 6-1/8 pct in early trading. Funds averaged six pct on Friday. Reuter 
GRAIN CERTIFICATE REDEMPTIONS PUT AT 240 MLN BU

Over 240 mln bushels of government grain have been allocated in redemptions for commodity certificates since the program began April 30, according to the Commodity Credit Corporation. Redemptions included 11.4 mln bushels of corn valued at 17.0 mln dlrs, or an average per-bushel price of 1.492 dlrs, since the current grain catalogs were issued December 1 by CCC. Wheat redemptions totaled 9.6 mln bushels, valued at 23.7 mln dlrs, since December 1. More 
RANGER <RGO> COMPLETES U.S. PROPERTY SALE

Ranger Oil Ltd said it completed on March 2 the previously announced sale of its U.S. oil and gas properties held by subsidiaries Ranger Oil Co and Ranger Inc to Ampol Exploration Ltd, of Australia, for 18.5 mln U.S. dlrs. Ranger said that under the deal, it would retain a five pct gross overriding royalty on its stake from blocks east cameron 65 and 82 in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Lousiana. It said the sale did not include U.S. properties acquired from <Berkeley Exploration and Production PLC> last December. Reuter 
TRADERS SAY USDA MAY LOWER ORANGE CROP ESTIMATE

The U.S. Department of Agriculture will probably decrease its estimate of the 1986/87 Florida orange crop today to as low as 123 mln boxes from 129 mln boxes, analysts and industry sources said. The Department is scheduled to release the new estimate at 1500 hrs EST (2100 gmt) today. Analysts said the market is anticipating a downward revision and much of the bullish impact has been discounted. The estimate, which the USDA has left unchanged since October, should be affected this time by recent evidence of a shortfall in the early and midseason crop now that those harvests are complete. Analysts said based on earlier USDA projections, the harvests should have been five to seven mln boxes larger than they were. "They are going to cut their estimate," said Bob Tate, an FCOJ broker with Dean Witter Reynolds in Miami. "The only question is whether they will admit the whole thing in this estimate." Tate said it is possible the USDA will lower its estimate by a lesser amount, perhaps three mln boxes, and continue to drop the estimate in subsequent reports as the crop picture clarifies. The late season harvest, consisting mostly of Valencia oranges, has not yet started, he noted. "They'll temper it," said Judy Weissman, FCOJ analyst with Shearson Lehman Bros. "The main drop will probably come in July." She expects today's estimate will be 126 mln boxes. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
HAMILTON OIL <HAML> SAYS RESERVES RISE

Hamilton Oil Corp said reserves at the end of 1986 were 59.8 mln barrels of oil and 905.5 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or 211 mln barrels equivalent, up 10 mln equivalent barrels from a year before. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> RAISES HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS

Oil traders in the New York area said Exxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. increased the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor by 1.5 cts a gallon, effective Saturday, March 7. They said the increase brought Exxon's contract barge price to 50 cts a gallon. Traders said the price hike followed higher spot and futures market prices for heating oil. Reuter 
RLR FINANCIAL <RLRF> TO BE DELISTED FROM NASDAQ

RLR Financial Serivces Inc said the National Association of Securities Dealers intends to delist it because the NASD beleieves market sales of RLR's broker/dealer subsidiary, RLR Securities Group Inc, are not being made under an effective registration statement, as required by the Securities Act of 1933. RLR said the NASD intends to delist it on March 12 unless RLR demonstrates compliance with the law. RLR said it believes the action is without merit because there is an effective registration statement for the RLR Financial securities involved, and it intends to defend itself in the matter. RLR said it has asked the NASD to stay any deletion of its securities from NASDAQ pending its continuous review of the matter and a possibility of a hearing on the merits. RLR said it has stopped market making in its own securities pending resolution of the matter. It said a delisting from NASDAQ could have an adverse effect on the market and prices for its securities. Reuter 
HUDSON BAY MINING CUTS U.S., CANADA ZINC PRICES

<Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co Ltd> said it cut prices for all grades of zinc sold in North America by one U.S. ct a pound and by one Canadian ct a pound, effective immediately. The new price for high grade zinc is 37 U.S. cts and 49-1/2 Canadian cts a pound, the company said. Special high grade, prime western and continuous galvanizing grade with controlled lead now costs 37-1/2 U.S. cts and 50 Canadian cts a pound. The new price for continuous galvanizing grade alloyed with controlled lead and aluminum additions is 37-3/4 U.S. cts and 50-1/4 Canadian cts a pound. Reuter 
SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS

Shell Canada, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> said that it raised crude oil prices by about 47 Canadian cts a barrel today. The increase riased its posted price for Light sweet crude oil to 21.95 dlrs a barrel from its march one level. Light sour crudes were raised to 19.95 dlrs a barrel, the company said. Reuter 
MGE CORN SYRUP FUTURES CONTRACT CLEARS HURDLE

The staff of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, recommended that the regulatory agency approve the Minneapolis Grain Exchange's application to trade high fructose corn syrup-55, HFCS-55, futures contracts. The commission is expected to approve the application at a meeting tomorrow. The proposed contract would provide for the delivery of 48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk HFCS-55, a liquid food and beverage sweetener produced through processed corn starch by corn refiners. Under proposed rules, a shipping certificate has a limited life, as it expires 30 days following the last day of trading of the expiring contract month. A premium charge of 14.40 dlrs per contract per day would be assessed under the proposal. Reuter 
FITZWATER SAYS REAGAN STRONGLY AGAINST TAX HIKE

White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan's record in opposing tax hikes is "long and strong" and not about to change. "We're opposed to tax increases.... We will fight tax increases.... We will deal with it politically in every forum possible," said Fitzwater when questioned about whether there was any change in the administration's position. Fitzwater said Reagan's strong feelings against a tax hike included opposition to an oil import fee. "The President's position is that he is opposed to it," he said. REUTER 
ABMS SAYS U.S. ZINC STOCKS HIGHER IN FEBRUARY

Total U.S. slab zinc stocks held by smelters rose to 24,735 short tons at the end of February from 22,120 short tons at the end of January, the American Bureau of Metal Statistics reported. Zinc production increased to 26,732 short tons in February from 25,786 short tons in January. Shipments from smelters' plants declined to 23,560 short tons in February from 24,564 short tons in January. Reuter 
DIAMOND SHAMROCK OFFSHORE <DSP> IN FIND

Diamond Shamrock Offshore Partners said it has started development drilling on West Cameron 178 block off Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico after a significant natural gas find on the block. It said the discovery well there encountered 46 feet of net natural gas pay. No flow tests have been conducted, it said. Diamond Shamrock Offshore said it has a 46.15 pct interest in the block, Phillips Petroleum Co 28.85 pct and Santa Fe Energy Partners LP <SFP> 25.00 pct. Diamond Shamrock Corp <DIA> owns 80.3 pct of Diamond Shamrock Offshore. Reuter 
U.S. LEAD INVENTORIES RISE IN FEBRUARY - ABMS

Lead stocks held by U.S. refiners rose to 37,295 short tons at the end of February from 34,224 short tons (revised higher) at the end of January, the American Bureau of Metal Statistics reported. Production of lead decreased to 33,619 short tons in February from 38,759 short tons in January. Shipments from plants increased to 30,467 short tons in February from 27,041 short tons (revised lower) in January, the ABMS said. Reuter 
ANGIO-MEDICAL IN INITIAL OFFERING

<Angio-Medical Corp> said it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering of 1,666,667 units of one share of common and one redeemable warrant to buy one share of common at six dlrs per unit. It said Keane Securities Co Inc <KEAN> is the underwriter. The company said its securities are proposed for trading on NASDAQ under the symbol <ANGMU>. Reuter 
FED WATCHERS SEE U.S. ECONOMIC, INFLATION UPTURN

This year will see a pickup in U.S. economic growth and inflation, the Shadow Open Market Committee said in its semi-annual policy statement. The SOMC, a group of basically "monetarist" private economists, said that "economic growth will accelerate in 1987 in response to powerful stimulative actions by the Federal Reserve." The group said the Fed's actions have been excessive. As a result, it said that "inflation and ultimately another recession now loom on the horizon." The SOMC said that central bank policies that rely on progressively larger swings in monetary expansion will not lead to sustainable economic growth and stable prices. The group made no specific nominal forecasts of economic or inflation growth in its policy statement. However, the Committee at its Sunday policy-making meeting said it was basically in accord with projections by Jerry Jordan, who is a member of the SOMC and economist at First Interestate Bancorp. Jordan expects real GNP growth to be about one percentage point higher than in the past two years. He expects consumer prices to rise about 4-1/2 pct this year. The SOMC said in recent months rapid money growth has been a principal cause of the devaluation. To avoid another costly inflation and disinflation, the SOMC urged the Fed to "abandon its inflationary policy and set the growth rate of the monetary base on the path toward sustained lower inflation." The Fed in February said it would no longer target the narrow M-1 money supply because the link between M-1 and economic growth has been largely severed. 
U.S. BILL AUCTIONS SEEN AT 5.63-65, 5.59-61 PCT

The U.S. Treasury's weekly auction is expected to produce an average rate of 5.63-65 pct for three-month bills and one of 5.59-61 pct for six-month bills, dealers said. Shortly before auction time on the new bills, the rate on the outstanding three-month bills was unchanged at 5.64 pct bid, while the rate on the six-month bills was one basis point higher at 5.68 pct bid. Reuter 
BERMUDA STAR LINE <BSL> TO MAKE ACQUISITION

Bermuda Star Line Inc said it has agreed in principle to acquire 815-passenger SS Liberte from Barnstead Shipping Ltd for use in its New York/Montreal "Northeast Passages" cruises, starting this summer. The company said it is working to conclude a lease financing or other financing for the purchase of the 23,500 ton vessel, which is to be delivered in early April and renamed Canada Star. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 
CBT TRADERS SEE LOWER SOYBEAN EXPORT INSPECTIONS

The USDA's weekly export inspection report is expected to show a decline in soybean exports and steady to slightly lower corn and wheat exports, according to CBT floor traders' forecasts. Traders projected soybean exports at 15 mln to 16 mln bushels, down from 20.3 mln bushels a week ago and 25.5 mln bushels a year ago. Corn guesses ranged from 20 mln to 25 mln bushels, compared with 21.9 mln bushels a week ago and 28.2 mln a year ago. Wheat guesses ranged from 13 mln to 18 mln bushels, compared with 14.1 mln bushels a week ago and 17.9 mln a year ago. Reuter 
AIRBUS HAS NO COMMENT ON MCDONNELL TALKS

European consortium <Airbus Industrie> said it had no comment on press reports that it had resumed talks with U.S. <McDonnell Douglas Corp.> over a possible joint development and production of airliners. A spokesman at Airbus headquarters in Toulouse said in a telephone interview: "We have no knowledge of talks and have no comment to make." Talks broke off last autumn after the two rivals failed to agree on cooperation over a new long-range jet. McDonnell Douglas wanted Airbus to help build its MD-11, while Airbus insisted McDonnell drop the MD-11 and cooperate over its A340. Reuter 
U.S., SOVIETS TO RESUME TALKS ON MEDIUM-RANGE MISSILES

American and Soviet arms negotiators will resume talks on curbing medium-range nuclear missiles here tomorrow, a U.S. Spokesman said. The negotiations on nuclear and space arms formally recessed their seventh round last Friday. But both sides agreed that the group dealing with Intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF) would continue its work, following proposals introduced last week by both superpowers for deep cuts in those weapons. Reuter 
 CANADIAN OIL COMPANIES RAISE CRUDE PRICES

Petro-Canada, the state-owned oil company, said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 64 Canadian cts a barrel, effective March six. Petro-Canada's posted price for the benchmark light sweet grade, Edmonton/Swann Hills at 40 api gravity, now stands at 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Their light sour grade is posted at 19.88 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Earlier today, Shell Canada <SHC> said it raised its crude postings about 47 Canadian cts/bbl, bringing Edmonton light sweet to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl, and the light sour crude to 19.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Imperial oil <IMO.A>, a 70 pct owned subsidiary of Exxon Corp, said that effective March five it also raised its light sweet crude posting to 21.95 Canadian dlrs/bbl. Reuter 
FINAL 50/50 CORN CERTS SEEN AT 1.6 BILLION DLRS

The Agriculture Department will have to release an estimated 1.6 billion dlrs worth of in-kind certificates, or certs, to corn farmers this fall if USDA decides to maintain an equal split of total 1986 feedgrain deficiency payments in cash and certs, USDA officials said. Final 1986 crop deficiency payments will be available to feed grain producers in October. Wheat deficiency payments for the 1986 crop, now complete, were made in a 50/50 cash-certificate split, and USDA officials have indicated they want to do the same for feedgrains. Over 3.2 billion dlrs of an estimated 6.0 billion in corn deficiency payments have already been announced, with 1.42 billion dlrs (43 pct) set in certificates. The final payment must be 1.6 billion dlrs in certs (57 pct) for a 50/50 split. However, the release this month of almost 600 mln dlrs of deficiency payments was equally divided in cash and certs, doing nothing to bring up the percentage of certs. Some USDA analysts said the payments reflected hesitation from the Office of Managament and Budget to allow another huge release of certs onto the market. Bills are pending in Congress to move up the final feedgrain deficiency payment to "as soon as five months after harvest as possible," rather than the current year lag time. Neither Rep. Edward Madigan (R-Ill.) nor Sen. Bob Dole (R-Kans.), sponsors of the bills, have brought the legislation forward. Aides said timing will depend on budget discussions. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES SOVIET WHEAT, COARSE GRAINS

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast the Soviet 1986/87 wheat crop at 92.30 mln tonnes, vs 92.30 mln tonnes last month. It put the 1985/86 crop at 78.10 mln tonnes, vs 78.10 mln tonnes last month. Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain production is estimated at 103.30 mln tonnes, vs 103.30 mln tonnes last month. Production in 1985/86 is projected at 100.00 mln tonnes, vs 99.99 mln tonnes last month. USSR wheat imports are forecast at 15.00 mln tonnes in 1986/87, vs 14.00 mln tonnes last month. Imports in 1985/86 are put at 15.70 mln tonnes, vs 15.70 mln tonnes last month. USDA estimated Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain imports at 10.00 mln tonnes, vs 8.00 mln tonnes last month, and 1985/86 imports at 13.70 mln tonnes, vs 13.70 mln tonnes last month. 
USDA ORANGE JUICE YIELD ESTIMATE

The U.S. Agriculture Department projected an average yield of 1.47 gallons of frozen concentrated orange juice per box (42.0 degree brix equivalent) from Florida's 1986/87 crop. That compares with 1.46 gallons per box previously and 1.38 gallons per box from the 1985/86 crop. The crop reporting board said the estimates for the 1986/87 season are based on maturity and yields tests as of March 1. Reuter 
USDA WINTER/SPRING POTATO ESTIMATES

The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated 1987 winter potato production, based on March 1 conditions, at 2,788,000 cwts (100 lbs), vs 2,764,000 cwts indicated last month and 2,991,000 cwts last year. The department estimated winter potato area for harvest at 11,900 acres, vs 11,900 acres last month and 12,300 acres in 1986. The yield per harvested acre for winter potatoes is estimated at 234 cwts per acre, vs 243 cwts last year. The department also projected 1987 spring potato crop area planted at 79,300 cwts, vs 77,400 cwts last year, and area for harvest at 76,700 acres, vs 75,900 acres harvested last year. Reuter 
MEATPACKERS STRIKE MORRELL SIOUX CITY PLANT

About 800 members of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, UFCWU, struck John Morrell's Sioux City, Iowa, pork processing plant at midnight Sunday, a spokesman for the UFCWU national said. Meatpackers at the plant have been working without a contract since the old pact expired January 31, UFCWU spokesman John Mancuso said. The plant can slaughter and process about 13,000 to 14,000 hogs a day, he estimated. The UFCWU bargaining committee and full membership rejected in late January a contract proposal by John Morrell, a subsidiary of United Brands Inc, he said. 
CCC WHEAT CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR NORTH YEMEN

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has authorized 25.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to North Yemen to cover purchases of U.S. wheat under the Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103), the U.S. Agriculture Department said. Under the program credit terms extended must be in excess of three yeras, but not more than seven years. All sales under the line must be registered and exports completed by September 30, 1987, the department said. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS BARLEY MALT TO NIGERIA

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted one bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 4,400 tonnes of barley malt to Nigeria, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonus awarded was 100.00 dlrs per tonne and was made to Rahr Malting Co and will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory stocks of the CCC. The barley malt is scheduled for shipment during April, 1987. An additional 76,300 tonnes of barley malt are still available to Nigeria under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced December 10, 1986, it said. Reuter 
USDA RAISES SOVIET GRAIN IMPORT ESTIMATE

The U.S. Agriculture Department increased its estimate of Soviet 1986/87 grain imports to 26 mln tonnes from last month's projection of 23 mln tonnes. In its monthly USSR Grain Situation and Outlook, USDA said the increase reflected the return of the Soviet Union to the U.S. corn market and continued purchases of both wheat and coarse grain from other major suppliers. USSR wheat imports were projected at 15 mln tonnes, up one mln from last month's estimate and 700,000 tonnes below the preliminary 1985/86 figure. Soviet grain for feed use was estimated at a record 129 mln tonnes. Record or near-record livestock inventories, along with a dry fall which likely reduced late season pasturage, and a cold winter have increased feed demand, USDA said. USSR meat and egg production in January rose only slightly from the previous January's level, while milk production increased by nearly six pct. Unusually cold weather in January and smaller increases in roughage supplies during 1986 than in 1985 kept livestock production from expanding as much as it did a year earlier, USDA said. Reuter 
HARTFORD NATIONAL UNIT <HNAT> SETS CHINA PACT

Hartford National Corp said the China Industry Commerce and Development Corp agreed to work exclusively with its Connecticut National Bank unit in banking business between China and all six New England states. The company said China Industry Commerce will provide import and export assistance, economic and business information, contacts and introductions. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES CANADIAN CROPS

The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated Canada's 1986/87 wheat crop at 31.85 mln tonnes, vs 31.85 mln tonnes last month. It estimated 1985/86 output at 24.25 mln tonnes, vs 24.25 mln last month. Canadian 1986/87 coarse grain production is projected at 27.62 mln tonnes, vs 27.62 mln tonnes last month. Production in 1985/86 is estimated at 24.95 mln tonnes, vs 24.95 mln last month. Canadian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 19.00 mln tonnes, vs 18.00 mln tonnes last month. Exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 17.71 mln tonnes, vs 17.72 mln last month. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES AUSTRALIA WHEAT CROP

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast Australia's 1986/87 wheat crop at 17.30 mln tonnes, vs 17.50 mln tonnes last month. It estimated 1985/86 output at 16.13 mln tonnes, vs 16.13 mln last month. Australian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 14.50 mln tonnes, vs 15.00 mln tonnes last month, while exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 15.96 mln tonnes, vs 15.96 mln last month. Reuter 
FRANCE TO REQUEST PERMANENT MAIZE REBATES

French maize producers will ask the EC Commission to grant permanent maize export rebates following the recent EC/U.S. Accord guaranteeing the U.S. An annual export quota of two mln tonnes of maize for Spain over four years, the French maize producers association, AGPM, said. The Commission has already decided to accord rebates for the export of 500,000 tonnes of French maize, of which rebates for around 100,000 tonnes have been granted. The request will be made when export certificates have been granted for all the 500,000 tonnes, the AGPM said. The association said that the request would cover exports to all destinations, adding that the Soviet Union, which has important maize needs, is currently excluded from the list of destination countries for the 500,000 tonnes of French maize. The U.S. Agriculture Department has forecast Soviet maize imports for the 1986/87 campaign at 4.90 mln tonnes against 10.40 mln in 1985/86. Reuter 
U.S. PAYMENTS GAP TO PERSIST, EX-FED CHIEF SAYS

The dollar will decline over the next two to three years, but this is unlikely to result in a complete reduction of the U.S. current account deficit, said Anthony Solomon, chairman of S.G. Warburg (USA) Inc and former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In a presentation to the Japan Society, Solomon said without elaboration that he expects a "significant decline in the dollar," within the next three years. "The dollar will fall more, but the current account deficit will stop being reduced when it reaches its structural core," he said. Solomon described the structural core as about one-half of the current 150 billion dlr annual deficit. He cited several factors which will prevent an elimination of the deficit. For one thing, it is unlikely that there will be any new investment in those manufacturing industries that shrank when the dollar was at uncompetitive levels, he said. In addition, he said that the U.S. has an increased propensity to import in order to satisify consumer tastes. Solomon forecast inflation at 4.5 pct by year-end, but said it could be kept below five pct in the medium-term if oil prices are stable and commodity values remain low. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS DAIRY CATTLE TO MOROCCO

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 13 head of dairy cattle to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonus awarded was 1,505.00 dlrs per head and was made to Brown Swiss Enterprises Inc. It will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC inventories. The cattle are for delivery during March 9-September 30, 1987. The department said the purchase completes the Export Enhancement Program initiative for dairy cattle to Morocco announced on April 16, 1986. Reuter 
CCC EXPORT BONUS DAIRY CATTLE FOR CANARY ISLANDS

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of 75 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonus awarded was 1,459.00 dlrs per head and was made to T.K. International Inc. It will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks. The cattle are for delivery during March-June, 1987, it said. An additional 3,925 head of dairy cattle are still available to the Canary Islands under the Export Enahcnement Program initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said. Reuter 
U.S. CONSUMER CREDIT ROSE 536 MILLION DLRS IN JAN VS 144 MILLION DEC GAIN



USX <X> UNIT RAISES SOME CRUDE POSTINGS

Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp <X>, said it raised the contract price it pays for three grades of crude oil, effective March 6. Illinois Sweet and Indiana Sweet are both being raised 50 cts a barrel to 16.75 dlrs/bbl, and the Southern Michigan grade is being raised 25 cts/bbl, also to 16.75 dlrs a bbl. The West Texas Intermediate grade was unchanged. Reuter 
UNION, SHIPPERS AGREE TO CUT N.Y. PORT COSTS

The New York Shipping Association and International Longshoremen's Association said they agreed to cut cargo assessments at the Port of New York and New Jersey by more than 50 pct on some labor intensive cargos. The charges on cargo handled by union workers will be reduced to 2.85 dlrs a ton from 5.85 dlrs a ton, effective April one, according to the agreement between the union and shippers. The assessments are used to fund workers' benefits. "What were doing is lowering the price to get more bulk cargo flowing through here," a spokesman for the New York Shipping Association said. 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON MARCH 6

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on March 6 to 3.879 billion dlrs from 3.467 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 12.453 billion drls from 14.350 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 16.332 billion dlrs on March 6 compared with 17.817 billion dlrs on March 5. Reuter 
CSX <CSX> UNIT SETS IMPROVED SHIPPING SERVICE

CSX Corp's Sea-Land Corp unit said it will offer improved containership services between Puerto Rico and the East Coast and Gulf Coast of the United States, beginning March 16. The carrier said it will provide shorter door-to-door transit times, more convenient cargo availability and better rail connections for traffic moving between Puerto Rico and North America. Reuter 
WORLD BANK REPORT CRITICISES PERU ECONOMIC PLAN

a confidential world bank report on the peruvian economy said the government's strategy does not offer good prospects for medium and long-term growth and is likely to quickly lead to inflation. The report, published today by an economic monthly, the peru report, said the success of president alan garcia's government in stimulating output last year to achieve eight pct gross domestic product growth "represents gains in the short term at the expense of the long." Government officials had no immediate comment on the report, which advised a reduction in the overall size of the public investment programme and greater emphasis on the preservation of peru's export potential. The report said that although the government had succeeded in cutting inflation 50 pct a year in the first half of 1985 to under 70 pct, its stabilisation and reactivation programme was encountering increasing difficulties. "an early renewal of inflationary pressures, linked to monetary expansion, exchange rate devaluation and an easing of price controls, appears not improbable," it added. 
U.S. CONSUMER CREDIT ROSE 536 MLN DLRS IN JAN

U.S. consumer instalment credit rose a seasonally adjusted 536 mln dlrs in January after a revised rise of 144 mln dlrs in December, the Federal Reserve Board said. The annual rate of growth in January was 1.1 pct, up from 0.3 pct in December. Previously the Fed said consumer credit rose 105 mln dlrs in December. Among the credit categories, auto credit fell in January to 1.02 billion dlrs from 2.06 billion dlrs in December, the Fed said. Revolving credit in January fell by 366 mln dlrs after rising by 552 mln dlrs in December. Mobile home credit was up by 130 mln dlrs after falling by 21 mln dlrs in December. The category referred to as "other," covering bank and credit union loans, fell by 250 mln dlrs in January after declining by 2.44 billion dlrs in December, the Fed said. Before seasonal adjustment, consumer credit outstanding totaled 580.37 billion dlrs at the end of January, compared with 531.29 billion dlrs at the end of January, 1986. Reuter 
BROKERS SAY NYSE RULE SHIFT LIMITS FLEXIBILITY

Officials of major brokerage firms expressed dismay at a New York Stock Exchange decision to force strict compliance with a rule barring members from trading in NYSE-listed issues in London during New York trading hours. Most major brokerage houses said they had seen no formal notice from the NYSE on the interpretation of rule 390. Officials of the NYSE were unavailable to explain the timing or the technical details of enforcement of rule 390. "It's a step backward," said Samuel Hunter, senior vice president for equity trading at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., Hunter said any perceived problems caused by overlapping trading ought to be addressed by a search for equitable solutions instead of "hiding behind legalistic and technical definitions." The NYSE evidently feels some traders use London to circumvent rules preventing short sales on minus ticks, Hunter said. But he believes simultaneous printing of trades in London and New York would be a way to have dual trading with an element of fairness. "I'm a great advocate of the view that the greater the volume, the better the market will be," he said. Reuter 
ASCS BUYS PROCESSED PRODUCTS FOR DOMESTIC USE

The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) bought 25.7 mln pounds of wheat flour at a cost of 2.8 mln dlrs for domestic shipment April 1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesman said. ASCS also bought 11.1 mln pounds of bakers flour for 1.1 mln dlrs, 1.9 mln pounds of pasta for 408,258 dlrs, 1.4 mln pounds of processed cereal products for 304,043 dlrs, 4.8 mln pounds of corn products for 474,944 dlrs, and 16.3 mln pounds of milled rice for 2.0 mln dlrs. Reuter 
BANK BOARD SAYS MORTGAGE RATES DOWN IN FEBRUARY

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board said interest rates on both fixed rate and adjustable rate home mortgage loans were down substantially in early February. The bank board said the average effective commitment rate for fixed mortgages with a maturity of at least 15 years for new home purchases dropped to 9.54 pct in early February, a 30 basis point decline from early January. The commitment rate on adjustable rate mortgages declined by 16 basis points in the same period bringing the average rate to 8.5 pct, the bank board said. The average effective interest rate on all loans closed by major lenders declined 27 basis points from early January to 9.26 pct in early February, the lowest rate since March 1978, the bank board said. The average effective rate for fixed mortgages was was 9.51 pct, down 30 basis points from the early January level. The average effective rate for adjustable rate mortgages declined 22 basis points to 8.61 pct, the bank board said. Reuter 
API PRESIDENT SEES OPTIONS TO AVERT OIL CRISIS

American Petroleum Institute President Charles DiBona said no options should be rejected to combat growing U.S. dependence on foreign oil. "No action should be ruled out--import fees or quotas, floor prices, tax incentives or other alternatives--while a national dialogue on the issue continues," DiBona said at a paper institute conference in New York today. DiBona said there is no unanimity within the industry on how to stimulate energy production but there is consensus on removing several government policies that hinder investments in new prospects. DiBona said the windfall profit tax should be abolished immediately and current proposals for increased environmental regulations on acid rain and waste disposal should be not adopted. He also suggested that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska should be opened up for leasing to oil companies, DiBona said. "This is a battle the industry cannot afford to lose if the nation is to continue to benefit from Alaskan oil," DiBona said. Since 1986 U.S. oil production has fallen while consumption rose and that has raised dependence on imported oil, particularly from OPEC, DiBona said. Reuter 
U.S. SELLS 3-MO BILLS AT 5.63 PCT, STOP 5.64 PCT, 6-MO 5.59 PCT, STOP 5.60 PCT



U.S. BILL AUCTION RATES AVERAGE 5.63, 5.59 PCT

The U.S. Treasury said its weekly auction of three-month bills produced an average rate of 5.63 pct, with a 5.59 pct rate on six-month bills. These rates compared with averages of 5.47 pct for the three- and 5.51 pct for the six-month bills sold last week. The bond-equivalent yield on three-month bills was 5.81 pct. Accepted bids ranges from 5.61 pct to 5.64 pct and 29 pct of the bids at the high, or stopout rate, were taken. For six months, the yield was 5.85 pct and the bids ranges from 5.56 pct to 5.60 pct with 30 pct of the bids accepted. The Treasury said it received 30.9 billion dlrs of bids for the three-month bills, including 1.0 billion dlrs in non-competitive bids from the public. It accepted 6.6 billion dlrs of bids, including 2.2 billion dlrs from the Federal Reserve and 9.1 mln dlrs from foreign and international monetary authorities. Some 25.7 billion dlrs in bids for six-month bills were received, including 785 mln dlrs in non-competitives. The Treasury accepted 6.6 billion dlrs, including 1.9 billion dlrs from the Fed and 942 mln dlrs from foreign and international authorities. The average price for the three-month bills was 98.577 and prices ranged from 98.574 to 98.582. The average price for the six-months bills was 97.174, and prices ranged from 97.169 to 97.189. The average yield on the three-month bills was the highest since 5.66 pct on Feb 17. The average yield on the six-month bills was the highest since 5.70 pct on Feb 17. Reuter 
U.S. COURT LETS CHINESE BOND SUIT DISMISSAL STAND

The Supreme Court left intact a ruling that vacated a judgment ordering China to pay 41.3 mln dlrs for allegedly defaulting on a 1911 loan to finance construction of a railroad from Peking to Canton. The Imperial Government of China issued bonds in 1911 to help construct a section of the so-called Hukuang railroad in an agreement with British, German, French and American banks. According to court documents, payments on the loan were made until the mid-1930s, when China was torn by civil war. The present government, which came to power in 1949, has never acknowledged the debt. Nine U.S. bondholders sued China for repayment of the loan in 1979, less than a year after the normalization of relations between Washington and Peking. A U.S. District Court in Alabama in 1982 issued a judgment that the bondholders were entitled to all unpaid interest and principal on the bonds, totaling 41.3 mln dlrs. But a U.S. Court of Appeals last July vacated the award, ruling that the Chinese government was entitled to sovereign immunity, and dismissed the lawsuit. Supported by the Reagan administration, China argued that it could not be held liable for a debts involving bonds issued in 1911 and that it enjoyed absolute immunity. The Supreme Court, without comment, declined to hear an appeal by the bondholders seeking to reinstate their lawsuit. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND

There were three grain ships loading and two ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter 
DUPONT <DD> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES

Conoco Inc, a subsidiary of DuPont Corp, said it was increasing its contract prices for crude oil between 10 cts and one dlr a barrel, effective today. Conoco said the increase brings its price for the U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel, up one dlr. South Louisiana Sweet, also up one dlr, is now 17.85 dlrs. West Texas Sour was up 10 cts to 16.60 dlrs a barrel. Conoco was the last company to raise prices following a series of increases initiated last week by Sun Co <SUN>, which reversed the posted price cuts made at the end of February. Reuter 
CBT DISCUSSES MAJOR CHANGES FOR RENOVATION

Chicago Board of Trade (CBT) agricultural and financial futures markets could be in for a period of major upheaval later this year if the exchange goes ahead with planned renovation. A CBT spokesman told Reuters the exchange was looking at a number of options to identify the most cost effective and efficient way to proceed, including one which would involve moving the entire grains floor out of the building and into the nearby MidAmerica Commodity Exchange. "One of (CBT Chairman) Karsten Mahlmann's agenda items has been to proceed with renovation in the financial futures room," the spokesman said. Another CBT official, executive vice president George Sladoje, said the issue would be discussed this Friday at a special meeting on the exchange floor. A number of presentations have been made with regard to renovating the financial futures room, Sladoje said. "We've looked at five or six different alternatives, involving such things as flip-flopping the trading rooms," he added. It is conceivable that under a couple of these plans, we might use the MidAmerica Exchange temporarily for some CBT markets, Sladoje said. "If we move out of one floor entirely, then the construction period will be about a year," he said, adding that the issue was likely to go to a membership vote first and then be on the drawing board for eight months to a year. The CBT spokesman stressed that discussions were very preliminary at this stage and nothing was likely to begin until this summer at the earliest. In order to renovate the crowded financial futures pits, exchange officials have discussed providing them a temporary home next door in the present grains-dominated area. This could involve moving CBT markets in U.S. Treasury Bond futures, Treasury Notes, Muni-bonds, and options on T-Bonds and T-Notes through an adjoining corridor, while utilizing the MidAmerica floor for such CBT futures contracts as corn, wheat, soybeans, soybean products and agricultural options. Any such moves could meet with opposition among some CBT members. One senior floor trader said the financial futures room badly needs renovating. "There is talk the grains floor will shift to the MidAm and the financials will move to the grains area," he said. The CBT spokesman said another option being discussed was to renovate the financial floor in quadrants, one quarter at a time. "The first step, after deciding the most effective way to proceed, would be to get architectural and engineering drawings," he said. He added that it was difficult at present to determine an exact time frame for any possible moves. "This is a major undertaking and a process that would spread out over next year," he said. Floor traders at the MidAmerica Commodity Exchange, which merged with the CBT about a year ago, said they were preparing to vacate their floor at the end of this month. Space has recently been cleared for them at the CBT by moving its Major Market Index pit into the area once reserved for lightly-traded CBT gold and silver futures, which now share their trading area. The MidAm specializes in mini-contracts in grains, livestock, metals, financials and foreign currencies as well as some options contracts. "Rumor has it that the CBT grains are coming over here because the bonds are too crowded," one MidAm trader said. Another source at the MidAm said this change could take place by July or August. Reuter 
MARKET DISCOUNTS HIGHER SOVIET GRAIN IMPORTS

Grain analysts said the increase of three mln tonnes in 1986/87 Soviet grain imports is unlikely to affect the market Tuesday. They said the market already has discounted higher Soviet imports, partly on news last month that the Soviet Union bought one mln tonnes of U.S. corn, and on rumors that the Reagan administration is pushing for authority to sell the Soviets U.S. wheat under the Export Enhancement Program. In its supply-demand report, the USDA raised its estimate for 1986/87 Soviet grain imports to 26 mln tonnes from 23 mln. "That was business already done, for all practical purposes," said Drexel Burnham analyst Dale Gustafson, reflecting similar statements made by other analysts. Reuter 
REAGAN EXTENDS U.S. COOPERATION WITH EURATOM

President Reagan signed an order allowing sales of U.S. nuclear fuel to the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM) to continue for a further year, even though they do not comply with a 1978 U.S. law. Under the law, which is designed to combat the spread of nuclear weapons, foreign importers of U.S. nuclear fuel must get American consent to any reprocessing. The United States and EURATOM have had a series of 11 rounds of talks from 1978 to 1986 to renegotiate its nuclear cooperation agreements, signed more than 20 years ago, to conform with the 1978 law. Since 1978 the U.S.-EURATOM nuclear coooperation accords have been extended by a series of presidential waiver orders. State Department officials said negotiations had made more progress in the last two years after the United States had offered a longterm reprocessing consent arrangement, rather than requiring EURATOM to have U.S. consent for each fuel delivery. In notifying Congress of today's order extending U.S.-EURATOM nuclear cooperation, Reagan said: "A disruption of nuclear cooperation would not only eliminate any chance of progress in our talks with EURATOM related to our agreements, it would also cause serious problems in our relationships." He said further progress in talks with EURATOM was expected this year. Reuter 
U.S. INTERVENED TO BUY 50 MLN DLRS AGAINST YEN ON JANUARY 28, FED SAYS



YEUTTER DECLINES COMMENT ON SENATE RUMOR

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter declined to comment publicly on a rumor that Nebraska Gov. Kay Orr was considering appointing him to replace Democratic Sen. Edward Zorinsky, who died last week. However, Yeutter told senior staff this morning that he was not interested in replacing Zorinsky and wanted to continue serving as President Reagan's chief trade negotiator, an aide told Reuters. Orr reportedly is considering naming a Republican to replace Zorinsky. Nebraska Republican Reps. Doug Bereuter and Hal Daub were said to be among those being considered by Orr. Reuter 
TEXAS AIR <TEX> UNIT TO ADD MEXICO FLIGHTS

Texas Air Corp's Continental Airlines unit said it will begin service to Mexico from Atlanta in May. Continental said it will add non-stop flights to Mexico City, Puerto Vallarta, Cancun, Acapulco and Ixtapa. Reuter 
USSR SEEN LIKELY TO HONOR CORN COMMITMENT

The Soviet Union will likely honor its commitment with the United States to buy a minimum of four mln tonnes of corn this year, an Agriculture Department official said. "They have always honoured the agreement, and there's no reason now to think they won't this year," he told Reuters. "They have an aggressive buying campaign from the European Community, from Canada, from the U.S. They're active buyers from all sources at this point," the official said in explaining why the Department raised its Soviet grain imports estimate today by three mln tonnes to 26 mln tonnes. This is a dramatic shift from just a few months ago when analysts were saying the USSR might not buy any U.S. corn for the first time in 15 years. A drawdown of corn supplies in China and Argentina, concern over Soviet winter crops, and increasing competition for U.S. corn were all cited as possible factors in creating Moscow's recent interest. Lower corn production prospects in some major supplying countries have stirred activity from big buyers such as Japan, and the Soviets are also closely watching the situation, the official said. "The Soviets will try to out-capitalize the capitalists" and buy corn before prices get too high, the official said. "As soon as they need corn, they'll buy it," he added. USDA has confirmed one mln tonnes of corn sold to the Soviet Union, but both U.S. and Soviet analysts have said the purchases stand at 1.5 mln tonnes. The USDA official would not speculate on when the Soviets would enter the U.S. market again. "There has definitely been an evolving mind set -- from the situation of slow grain buying a couple months ago to one of frenetic buying now," the official said. However, the situation in wheat is "a different story," he said. Greater world supplies of wheat, heavier Soviet purchase commitments and less competitive U.S. wheat prices make Soviet purchases of U.S. wheat less likely, he said. Speculation has continued for several days that the U.S. is considering making an export bonus wheat subsidy offer to the Soviets, but U.S. officials have provided no confirmation. Reuter 
PICKENS SEES CONTINUED SLUMP IN WORKING RIGS

T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oilman and financier, said he believes the heady days the oil service industry had in the early 1980s, when over 4,500 oil rigs were once reported operating, will not return in his lifetime. Pickens told Reuters he expects the rig count to drop to below 600 before recovering. He added that oil prices will eventually rise to 35 dlrs, then to 50 dlrs after 1990. Currently, some 700 oil rigs are operating in the U.S., down sharply after oil prices slipped from 30 dlrs in late 1985 to around 10 dlrs in 1986. Prices are now around 18 dlrs. The highest number of working rigs was 4,500 in December 1981. "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil gets above 30 dlrs," he said, adding that while he expects to see 50 dlr a barrel oil, he does not expect to see 2,000 rigs operating in his lifetime. Pickens is 58. Pickens, who is currently touring the country promoting his autobiography "Boone," said he does not believe the U.S. should impose an oil import fee in order to stimulate the domestic oil industry. Reuter 
SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW 1987 GAINS IN U.S. TRADE

There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise in 1987, but Moscow's current trade reforms should result in more trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said. Sergey Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want. But reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in future. Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987. But he said that even if all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year. "The post-detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the U.S.," he said. REUTER 
KOREA PLANS TO OPEN MARKETS TO EASE WON PRESSURE

South Korea will further open its market to help cut its trade surplus with the U.S. And to fight off pressure to revalue the won against the dollar, a government spokesman said. The spokesman said Korean trade minister Rha Woong-Bae's stand in Washington yesterday against pressure from industrial nations to revalue the won underlined the government's determination to stand firm. Rha told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce "Demands that Korea carry out a drastic and sudden currency revaluation of five or 10 pct are, I believe, extremely ill-advised." Deputy prime minister Kim Mahn-Je told a meeting of local businessmen "The government's policy on the question of revaluing the won is to maintain a steadfast position." Kim said South Korea was ready to move slowly to raise the won's value because of its heavy foreign debt which stood at 44.5 billion dlrs at the end of 1986. Six industrialised nations agreed in Paris last month that newly industrialising countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, should allow their currencies to appreciate. But local businessmen have said won/dollar parity has already reached "a crisis level." An official of the Korea Traders' Association (KTA) said if the won strengthened another five pct, this would mean the loss of profitability for nearly half of all South Korean exporters. "We are determined not to go the way of Latin American debtor nations which have suspended interest payments of their debts," the spokesman said. "The only way to keep our good record is to maintain our exports.+ The trade minister said yesterday should Seoul revalue the won suddenly Korea would run "a tremendous trade deficit and could degenerate into a country, like many other developing countries, which is reneging on its international obligations." The spokesman said South Korea had been gradually appreciating its currency, ruling out a major revaluation. So far this year, the won has gone up by 0.8 pct against the dollar after a 3.34 pct revaluation in 1986. He said South Korea was selecting "many" of 122 items on which Washington recently asked Seoul to lower tariffs to help narrow its trade surplus with the U.S. No further details were given. Seoul announced in January the lifting of bans on 158 items, including sensitive agricultural products and large cars, effective from July. South Korea posted its first ever current account surplus last year, due largely to a trade surplus with the U.S. Of 7.1 billion dlrs, against a 4.3 billion deficit in 1985. It earlier forecast that its current account surplus could reach eight billion dlrs this year. But the government official said the surplus would be held at around five billion dlrs to avoid further pressure by industrialised nations to push up the value of its currency. REUTER 
U.S. URGES BANKS TO WEIGH PHILIPPINE DEBT PLAN

The U.S. is urging reluctant commercial banks to seriously consider accepting a novel Philippine proposal for paying its interest bill and believes the innovation is fully consistent with its Third World debt strategy, a Reagan administration official said. The official's comments also suggest that debtors' pleas for interest rate concessions should be treated much more seriously by the commercial banks, in cases where developing nations are carrying out genuine economic reforms. In addition, he signaled that the banks might want to reconsider the idea of a "megabank," where Third World debt would be pooled, and suggested the administration would support such a plan, even though it was not formally proposing it. At the same time, however, the official expressed reservations that such a scheme would ever get off the ground. The Philippine proposal, together with Argentine suggestions that "exit bonds" be issued to end the troublesome role of small banks in the debt strategy, would help to underpin the flagging role of private banks within the plan, the official said in an interview with Reuters. "All of these things would fit within the definition of our initiative as we have asked it and we think any novel and unique approach such as those should be considered," said the official, who asked not to be named. In October 1985, Washington outlined a debt crisis strategy under which commercial banks and multilateral institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) were urged to step up lending to major debtors nations. In return, America called on the debtor countries to enact economic reforms promoting inflation-free economic growth. "The multilaterals have been performing well, the debtors have been performing well," said the official. But he admitted that the largest Third World debtor, Brazil, was clearly an exception. The official, who played a key role in developing the U.S. Debt strategy and is an administration economic policymaker, also said these new ideas would help commercial banks improve their role in resolving the Third World debt crisis. "We called at the very beginning for the bank syndications to find procedures or processes whereby they could operate more effectively," the official said. Among those ideas, the official said, were suggestions that commercial banks create a "megabank" which could swap Third World debt paper for so-called "exit bonds" for banks like regional American or European institutions. Such bonds in theory would rid these banks of the need to lend money to their former debtors every time a new money package was assembled, and has been suggested by Argentina in its current negotiations for a new loan of 2.15 billion dlrs. He emphasised that the "megabank" was not an administration plan but "something some people have suggested." Other U.S. Officials said Japanese commercial banks are examining the creation of a consortium bank to assume Third World debt. This plan, actively under consideration, would differ slightly from the one the official described. But the official expressed deep misgivings that such a plan would work in the United States. "If the banks thought that that was a suitable way to go, fine. I don't think they ever will." He pointed out that banks would swap their Third World loans for capital in the megabank and might then be reluctant to provide new money to debtors through the new institution. Meanwhile, the official praised the Philippine plan under which it would make interest payments on its debt in cash at no more than 5/8 pct above Libor. "The Philippine proposal is very interesting, it's quite unique and I don't think it's something that should be categorically rejected out of hand," the official said. Banks which found this level unacceptably low would be offered an alternative of Libor payments in cash and a margin above that of one pct in the form of Philippine Investment Notes. These tradeable, dollar-denominated notes would have a six-year life and if banks swapped them for cash before maturity, the country would guarantee a payment of 7/8 point over Libor. Until now, bankers have criticised these spreads as far too low. The talks, now in their second week, are aimed at stretching out repayments of 3.6 billion dlrs of debt and granting easier terms on 5.8 billion of already rescheduled debt. The country, which has enjoyed strong political support in Washington since Corazon Aquino came to power early last year, owes an overall 27.8 billion dlrs of debt. But the official denied the plan amounts to interest rate capitalisation, a development until now unacceptable to the banks. "It's no more interest rate capitalisation than if you have a write down in the spread over Libor from what existed before," the official said in comments suggesting some ought to be granted the rate concessions they seek. "Some people argue that (cutting the spread) is debt forgiveness... What it really is is narrowing the spread on new money," he added. He said the U.S. Debt strategy is sufficiently broad as an initiative to include plans like the Philippines'. Reuter 
JAMAICA AGREES DRAFT BANK DEBT RESCHEDULING

Jamaica agreed in principle with its bank advisory committee on a rescheduling of 181 mln dlrs of foreign commercial bank debt falling due between 1987 and 1989, the Jamaican Information Service said. Repayments on the debt will be stretched out over 12 years with 8-1/2 years' grace at 1-1/4 percentage points over the London Interbank Offered Rate, Libor. The margin on previously restructured debt also will be cut to 1-1/4 point from 2-1/2. The package should save Jamaica about 3.3 mln dlrs a year. Prime Minister Edward Seaga, who led the Jamaican delegation, called the terms very favourable to his country. The agreement in principle with the bank advisory committee led by the Bank of Nova Scotia <BNO.TO> comes five days after Jamaica successfully concluded a 125.5 mln dlr rescheduling accord with the Paris Club of creditor nations. That pact in turn followed the International Monetary Fund (IMF)'s approval on March 5 of a 85 mln special drawing rights standby arrangement and a 40.9 mln sdr drawing under the compensatory financing facility. Of Jamaica's foreign debt of 3.3 billion dlrs only 12 pct is owed to commercial banks, and Seaga yesterday reaffirmed the government's policy of not seeking new bank loans. REUTER...^M 
BRAZIL'S GROS TO MEET BANKS ON TRADE LINE ISSUE

Brazil's central bank governor Francisco Gros will meet senior commercial bankers here today in a new attempt to defuse the anger generated by the country's unilateral suspension of interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign commercial bank debt, bankers said. Gros will meet representatives of Citibank, the head of Brazil's bank advisory committee, and of co-heads Morgan Guaranty Trust Co and Lloyds Bank Plc. High on the agenda will be banks' complaints about Brazil's accompanying freeze on some 15 billion dlrs of short-term trade and interbank lines, the bankers said. Brazil's several hundred creditor banks worldwide agreed last March to extend the credit lines until March 31, 1987, as part of a 31 billion dlr financing package. Bankers said the looming expiry of this commitment, coupled with Brazil's freeze, raised a spate of technical and legal questions that the banks want to discuss with Gros. They said they face problems because of the freeze requirement that any payment due to be made by a Brazilian bank under the trade facility must be deposited instead with the central bank. This means foreign bankers cannot easily switch their credit lines from one borrower to another. The requirement to deposit with the central bank has also meant Brazilian banks have been able to negotiate lower interest-rate spreads, because foreign banks would rather accept a reduced margin than see their money deposited with the central bank. "It's caused a lot of ill-will with the banking community," one banker said. Gros is also expected to brief the banks on the results of a 10-day tour of Europe and Japan that he and finance minister Dilson Funaro have just completed to seek official support for Brazil's debt stance. REUTER 
CHINA WELCOMES U.S. COURT BOND DECISION

China welcomed a U.S. Supreme Court decision dismissing claims by holders of 41 mln dlrs of pre-1949 Chinese bonds, but U.S. Officials said Peking has a long way to go before it can issue bonds in the U.S. A Foreign Ministry spokesman told a news briefing that China welcomed a Monday court ruling, which rejected a petition by holders of railway bonds issued in 1911 by the ruling Qing dynasty, which the Communist government does not acknowledge. The spokesman said the ruling "indicates the ... Railway bearer bonds case is finally closed." But a U.S. Embassy official said that two other bond cases were still in litigation and it was not known if the other courts involved would accept the Supreme Court ruling. China has issued much of its recent overseas debt in Japan, and has been badly hit by the yen's sharp rise. A Western banker said the U.S. Market has become more attractive to China, since it is likely to issue bonds denominated in currencies other than yen, and so protect itself against future currency fluctuations. But a Western diplomat warned that potential U.S. Buyers would not give China the warm reception it received in Japan. "U.S. Investors are not interested in China per se, as many Japanese are. China has no track record in the U.S. Bond market. Investors may demand disclosure of information Chinese institutions are unwilling to give," he said. He said potential buyers might scrutinise China's human rights record. Some institutions are reportedly concerned about recent events in China, including a drive by the Chinese media against "bourgeois liberalism." An official of state-owned China International Trust and Investment Corp, which has raised funds in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Frankfurt, declined comment on the court decision. REUTER 
NASD TO DELIST LOS ANGELES SECURITIES <LASG>

Los Angeles Securities Group said the National Association of Securities Dealers intends to delist its securities effective tomorrow because the NASD believes that market-making sales of the company's securities by its Los Angeles Securities brokerage subsidiary are not being made under an effective registration statement. The company said it must demonstrate compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, which requiresd the registration statement, to avoid delisting. It said it believes that the NASD action is without merit and that an effective registation stateement is in place. Los Angeles Securities said it is asking the NASD to stay the delisting pending a review of the matter, consultation with the Securities and Exchange Commission and a potential hearing on the merits. It said pending resolution of the matter, it has ceased making a market in its own securities. The NASD has instituted similar actions against other holding companies for broker/dealers that are quoted on its NASDAQ system. Reuter 
OFFICIAL SAYS REAGAN OPPOSES SECURITIES TAX

The Reagan administration is totally opposed to recent Democratic suggestions that securities transactions should be taxed to help curb the budget deficit, an administration official said in an interview. "We're totally opposed to a securities transfers tax. It would impair the efficiency of some of the most efficient markets in the world," he said. He declined to be named. In recent days House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, has called for such a tax to raise the 20 billion dlrs he estimates is needed to meet legal deficit reduction targets. "It would fall primarily in my view not on wealthy individuals but on middle income people who occasionally invest and trade. So I think it's a very bad idea," said the official, who is an administration economic policy-maker. The official also rejected a suggestion by Wright that the administration delay next year's cut in top tax rates, called for in the recently-passed overhaul of the U.S. Tax system. "It is breaking faith with the American people ... It would be a real breach of faith," he said. The Gramm-Rudman Hollings law calls for a balanced budget by 1991, but its power has been reduced in the Supreme Court. Wright and other Democrats say even if they pass President Reagan's budget proposals for the fiscal year starting this October, they would miss by some 20 billion dlrs the 108 billion dlr target for the budget deficit set under the Gramm-Rudman law. The administration puts the deficit at 173.2 billion dlrs in the current fiscal year and claims that spending cuts and revenue increases will achieve the Gramm-Rudman goal. The official, who is knowlegeable on budget strategy, also said President Reagan was still opposed to a so-called 'budget summit' with Congress to resolve the deficit issue. The suggestion of a 'budget summit' emerged again recently after Democrats and Republicans alike said Reagan needed a deficit reduction package and an arms control accord with Moscow to rebuild his presidency after the Iran arms scandal. But the official dismissed the budget summit idea as an attempt by the Democrats to secure a tax increase. He accused them of being overly critical before they had written their own budget proposal, due out on April 1. "It's easier to write a book review than it is to write a book. We've written a book and the Democrats are writing a book review every day. Let's see their book," he said. REUTER 
SOVIET ECONOMIST SEES FEW GAINS IN U.S. TRADE

There is little chance Soviet exports to the United States will rise in 1987, but Moscow's current trade reforms should result in more trade in manufactured goods in future, a Soviet economist said. Sergey Frolov, chief economist at Amtorg Trading Corp, an agent for Soviet trade organisations and industries, told a U.S.-USSR business meeting the Soviet Union produces few items that western nations want. But reforms, including upgrading the quality of goods and allowing joint ventures with foreign firms, will encourage modest export gains in future. Frolov said the Soviet Union exported 500 mln dlrs worth of goods to the United States in 1986 and imported 1.5 billion dlrs worth. He gave no trade forecast for 1987. But he said that even if all obstacles were removed, total trade between the two countries would remain between two and three billion dlrs a year. "The post-detente embargoes have taught the USSR to limit its trading with the U.S.," he said. REUTER 
CLARK HOLDS TALKS WITH SHULTZ IN WASHINGTON

Foreign Secretary Joe Clark urged the United States to take firm action on reducing "acid rain" and on sticking with the strict interpretation of the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty but said he won no promises. After a day of meetings with Vice President George Bush, Secretary of State George Shultz and Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, Clark told a press conference he was persuaded the Reagan adminstration had begun to deal seriously with Canada and its concerns. But he admitted he had won no assurances Washington would go along with his government's position on several key controversial issues. "There's a lot more attention to Canadian files. What remains to be seen is how much progress will be achieved," he told reporters. The meetings, which end today with talks on Capitol Hill, are part of a routine U.S.-Canadian consultation but are also expected to lay groundwork for a summit in Ottawa next month between President Reagan and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Clark discouraged speculation that lack of a firm American committment on the thorny issue of acid rain could render the summit a failure. Canada is seeking evidence that Reagan is prepared to live up to a commitment made last year to implement in the United States a five-year five billion dlr U.S. program to test cleaner ways of burning coal. "We expect the U.S. government to honor its commitment" and discussed this with Shultz today, Clark said. "There's no question the matter is under serious detailed consideration at the highest levels of the U.S. government," he said, adding that Shultz "left my meeting today to attend a (White House) cabinet meeting that was discussing this as well as other questions." "We will wait and see the results of that examination," he said. Clark also said he reiterated Canada's position that the United States should adhere to a strict interpretation of the 1972 ABM treaty, the only remaining operative arms control agreement. Reuter 
TALKING POINT/OIL SERVICES TURNAROUND SEEN

The oil services industry is on the verge of a recovery because of rising crude prices, oil industry analysts said. The analysts, who issued buy recommendations on some stocks, said the recovery in oil services should begin in the second half of 1987, after drilling activity bottoms out in the first half, and continue into the next decade. "People, however, cannot afford to wait for drilling to go up to start buying," said Sandi Haber Sweeney, senior research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein and Co Inc. Among the recommended buys are Schlumberger Ltd <SLB>, Halliburton Co <HAL>, Dresser Industries <DI>, Baker International <BKO>, and McDermott International Inc <MDR>, which may be the target of a takeover by Harold Simmons, a Dallas-based investor. Analysts said although major oil companies are increasing exploration and development overseas, they expect the pickup in oil services will begin in the U.S. "Activity in the U.S. is so depressed it should move up faster," said Vishnu Sharp of Goldman Sachs. The number of active oil drilling rigs in the U.S. was 766 last week compared with 1,212 rigs one year ago, Huges Tool Co <HT> figures show. The average number of working rigs in the U.S. for 1987 is projected at 978 versus 964 in 1986, according to Ike Kerridge, vice president of stockholder relations at Hughes Tool. "The first significant pickup in drilling activity will occur in the second half of 1988," Kerridge said. Overseas drilling activity is expected to follow a similar pattern, Kerridge said. "Halliburton is the best value," said Jeffrey Freedman, vice president at Smith Barney, Harris and Upham Inc, adding the company controls the greatest amount of liquidity of common stock market value, is diversifed in non-oil field businesess, and has the lowest multiple of stock price to operating cash flow including debt. Schlumberger is Freedman's second favorite oil service stock. "Schlumberger is expected to continue to be the dominant technical leader in the industry," Freedman said. "Schlumberger's management shift, asset restructuring, including a pending merger of Fairchild Semiconductor, and its considerable cash horde sets the stage for the company to maximize its significant industry advantage and capitalize on the project upturn in exploration and development activity," according to a report by George Gaspar, first vice president at Robert W. Baird and Co Inc. Gaspar estimates earnings per share for Schlumberger at 25 cts for 1987 and one to 1.75 dlrs in 1988 compared with 20 cts in 1986 excluding a fourth quarter special charge of 1.87 billion dlrs. Bernstein's Sandi Sweeney is recommending a group of oil service companies and said choosing among them is difficult. Her favorite is Baker International, which is involved in a possible merger with Hughes Tool Co. Dresser Industries will also benefit from the recovery but possibly not as much as other companies because it is not a pure service company, Sweeney said. Dresser is expected to improve profitability owing to cost reductions and streamlined operations, including the sale and leaseback of its headquarters, said Swarup. Reuter 
ST. JOE GOLD <SJG> TO DEVELOP MINE

St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans to proceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold property in northwestern Ontario. It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continue underground development and obtain operating permits and another 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to complete underground development, construct a mill and provide the infrastructure needed to put the mine into commercial production. St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits were granted in time, it would start gold production in the second half of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate of about 40,000 troy ounces. The company said the property is estimated to contain over 500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining project covers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reserves of 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton. It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150 tons of ore daily. St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not been tested at depth or along strike to the east and west and exploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property and the adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property. The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silver deposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota has been shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading 0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton. It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibility study is nearing completion. Reuter 
AGENCY TO REVIEW JOHNSON/JOHNSON <JNJ> SWEETNER

Johnson and Johnson said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has notified the company its food additive petition for a high-intensity sweetener has been formally accepted and now will be reviewed by the agency. The company said the product, with the generic name of sucralose, is made from sugar and tastes like sugar, but is about 600 times sweeter. It yields no calories and does not promote tooth decay. Reuter 
AGENCY TO REVIEW JOHNSON AND JOHNSON SWEETENER

Johnson and Johnson said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has notified the company its food additive petition for a high-intensity sweetener has been formally accepted and now will be reviewed by the agency. The company said the product, with the generic name of sucralose, is made from sugar and tastes like sugar, but is about 600 times sweeter. It yields no calories and does not promote tooth decay. Johnson and Johnson said the sweetner is being jointly developed with Tate and Lyle PLC <TATL>. Tate and Lyle is seeking approval in Canada, the United Kingdom and other European countries, Johnson and Johnson said. The company noted its petition covering the product and its safety evaluation were submitted to the FDA last month. While awaiting FDA approval, the company said, it is proceeding with plans for commercialization through its McNeil Specialty Products Co subsidiary. Johnson and Johnson said it is operating under a licensing agreement with Tate and Lyle, whose collaborative research with scientists at Queen Elizabeth College in London led to the discovery of Sucralose in 1976. Patents and licensing agreements control the use of sucralose through the year 2001, Johnson and Johnson said. Sucralose is a chlorinated derivative of ordinary sugar. The carbon-chloride bonds in sucralose are stable and are not broken during digestion or metabolism. Sucralose is essentially not metabollized by the body. The chlorine content enhances sweetness without providing calories. Reuter 
SENATORS, PROSECUTOR DISAGREE ON IRAN TESTIMONY

Senators and a special prosecutor were in dispute today over a legal maneuver to force quick answers from key figures in the Iran arms scandal and the diversion of profits to Nicaraguan rebels. Senators on a special Senate committee investigating the scandal want to grant limited immunity from prosecution to force early testimony from Lt. Col. Oliver North and John Poindexter. North is the National Security Council (NSC) aide President Reagan fired November 25 for possibly illegal diversion of Iran arms payments to the so-called contra rebels. Poindexter, who was NSC director and North's boss, resigned the same day. The Washington Post said over the weekend that Poindexter was ready to testify that he told Reagan twice of the funds diversion, contrary to Reagan's denial that he knew of it. Special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh said he asked a special House committee yesterday to delay limited immunity for North and Poindexter for at least 90 days, and would make the same request to the Senate committee today. Walsh said he was also urging the committees to delay granting immunity for a third key figure, retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord, a close North associate. Walsh, whose job is to determine whether anyone should be prosecuted for criminal misconduct, said premature immunity could put the three beyond the law before a grand jury can decide whether they should be prosecuted. Reuter 
TRITON ENERGY <OIL> AFFILIATE IN CANADIAN FIND

Triton Energy Corp said its 70 pct owned <Canadian Worldwide Energy Ltd> affiliate's Lasmo et al Tableland 4-36-2-10W2 well in Saskatchewan flowed 567 barrels of 37 degree gravity oil through a 17/64 inch choke from depths of 8,531 to 8,548 feet and 636 barrels of oil per day through a 20/64 inch choke from depths of 8,500 to 8,507 feet. Triton said because of the well's status as a deep exploratory well, production qualifies for a five-year royalty holiday under the Saskatchewan drilling incentive products. It said the well's initial production is expected to be restricted to an allowable level of about 300 barrels a day, although it is capable of sustaining much higher rates. The company said London and Scottish Marine Oil PLC owns a 50 pct interest in the well and its spacing unit, Canadian Worldwide 25 pct, <Saskatchewan Oil and Gas Corp> 10 pct, <Interprovincial Pipeline Ltd's> Home Oil Co Ltd 7.5 pct and Scurry-Rainbow Oil Ltd <SRB> 7.5 pct. Triton said Royal Dutch/Shell Group's <RD> <SC> Shell Canada Ltd <SHC> affiliate retains a convertible overriding interest in the well. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 308,000 head versus 305,000 week ago and 308,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to 132,000 head versus 130,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago. Reuter 
U.S. 4TH QTR BALANCE OF PAYMENTS TRADE DEFICIT WAS RECORD 38.37 BILLION DLRS



NY TRADERS SAY E.C. SOLD 71,000 TONNES  OF WHITE SUGAR AT TENDER.



U.S. TRADE DEFICIT 38.37 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH QTR

The U.S. merchandise trade deficit on a balance of payments basis was a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the October to December fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said. The record trade shortfall came after a revised 37.15 billion dlr third quarter deficit. The department previously reported the third quarter deficit was 37.67 billion dlrs. For the full year 1986, the merchandise trade deficit was a record 147.7 billion dlrs, up from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985, the department said. During the final quarter last year imports rose 2.78 billion dlrs or three pct to 95.7 billion dlrs, while exports rose 1.56 billion dlrs or three pct to 57.33 billion dlrs. The trade report on a balance of payments basis excludes such factors as military sales and the costs of shipping and insurance. The Commerce Department said non-petroleum imports in the quarter were up 2.7 billion dlrs or three pct to 87.7 billion dlrs, with the largest increases in consumer goods, which rose 1.2 billion dlrs, and in non-monetary gold and passenger cars from Canada, up 900 mln dlrs each. Lumber imports from Canada fell 300 mln dlrs or 33 pct because of a 15 pct duty on imports from Canada, the department said. Passenger car imports fell 600 mln dlrs because of an 18 pct decrease in the number of South Korean-made imported cars and a nine pct decrease from Japan. On the exports side, agricultural exports rose 600 mln dlrs or nine pct to 7.1 billion dlrs, primarily because of a 104 pct or 600 mln dlr increase in soybean exports. Soybean shipments to Western Europe rose sharply because supplies from Brazil, a traditional major exporter, were limited by drought. Commerce said the U.S. trade deficit with Latin America rose 900 mln dlrs to 2.6 billion dlrs, with Japan increased 700 mln dlrs to 14.8 billion dlrs and with Western Europe rose 200 mln to 7.2 billion dlrs in the quarter. The deficit with newly industrialized Far East countries, including Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, fell 500 mln dlrs to eight billion dlrs and with Canada the deficit decreased 200 mln dlrs to 3.3 billion dlrs in the quarter. In the full year 1986, imports rose 30.6 billion dlrs or nine pct to 369.5 billion dlrs. Exports increased by only 7.3 billion dlrs or three pct to 221.8 billion dlrs. Commerce said petroleum imports during 1986 fell 16.6 billion dlrs or 33 pct to 33.9 billion dlrs because of lower prices. The average price per barrel decreased to 14.72 dlrs from 26.41 dlrs. Agricultural exports fell by 2.6 billion dlrs or nine pct to 26.9 billion during the year. The average price of rice fell 27 pct, cotton was down 22 pct, corn 18 pct, wheat 16 pct and soybeans nine pct. The trade deficit with Japan for all of 1986 rose 11.1 billion dlrs to 54.6 billion dlrs and with Western Europe increased 7.2 billion dlrs to 28.6 billion dlrs. Reuter 
AMERICAN COMMUNICATIONS <ASTVE> GETS EXCEPTION

American Communications and Television Inc said its common stock will continue to be included in the National Association of Securities Dealers' NASDAQ system due to an exception from filing requirements, which it failed to meet as of February 14. The company said it believes it can meet conditions imposed by the NASD for the exception, but there can be no assurance that it will do so. Reuter 
ST. JOE GOLD TO DEVELOP ONTARIO MINE

St. Joe Gold Corp said it plans to proceed with development of its Golden Patricia gold property in northwestern Ontario. It said about five mln dlrs will be spent to continue underground development and obtain operating permits and another 10.2 mln dlrs is expected to be required to complete underground development, construct a mill and provide the infrastructure needed to put the mine into commercial production. St. Joe Gold said if the necessary operating permits were granted in time, it would start gold production in the second half of the year ending October 31, 1988 at an annual rate of about 40,000 troy ounces. The company said the property is estimated to contain over 500,000 troy ounces of gold, and the initial mining project covers only seven of 192 claims, with drill-indicated reserves of 293,000 short tons grading 0.88 troy ounce of gold per ton. It said initial mine output is expected to be about 150 tons of ore daily. St. Joe Gold said the Golden Patricia vein has not been tested at depth or along strike to the east and west and exploration is continuing on the Golden Patricia property and the adjacent wholly-owned Muskeg Lake property. The company also said its Richmond Hill gold and silver deposit in the Carbonate district of western South Dakota has been shown by drilling to contain about 3,900,000 tons grading 0.055 troy ounce of gold and 0.23 troy ounce of silver per ton. It said preliminary results are encouraging and a feasibility study is nearing completion. Reuter 
TENNECO <TGT> DECLINES COMMENT ON STOCK

The New York Stock Exchange said Tenneco Inc declined to comment on whether there were any corporate developments that might explain the unusual activity in its stock. The exchange said it had requested a statement from the company in light of the activity. Tenneco was up 1-7/8 dlrs to 48-5/8. Reuter 
LTV <LTV> WINS 18.5 MLN DLR PAKISTAN ORDER

LTV Corp said Pakistan ordered 180 military trucks and spare parts worth 18.5 mln dlrs from AM General, a unit of LTV's Missles and Electronics Group. The company said the order includes 140 M809 Series five-ton trucks and 40 M44A2 Series 2-1/2 ton trucks. They are scheduled to be delivered later this year. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves via customer or system repurchase agreements, economists said. Most economists said the Fed will inject reserves indirectly via customer repurchases, but they added that the Fed might opt for a direct injection of reserves via overnight system repurchases. Federal funds opened at 6-3/8 pct and eased to 6-5/16 pct in early trading. Funds averaged 6.29 pct yesterday. Reuter 
U.S. HOSUING COMPLETIONS FELL 0.2 PCT IN JANUARY

U.S. Completions of new homes fell 0.2 pct in January to a seasonally adjusted rate of 1.884 mln units from 1.888 mln in December, the Commerce Department said. The January fall came after a strong 6.4 pct rise from November's rate of 1.774 mln units and brought completions to 6.7 pct above the January, 1986 level of 1.765 mln units. In January, completions of single-family units rose 0.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted 1.183 mln units from 1.178 mln units in December while multi-family units fell 1.3 pct to 701,000 units in January, the department said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSING COMPLETIONS FELL 0.2 PCT IN JAN

Completions of new homes fell 0.2 pct in January to a seasonally adjusted rate of 1.884 mln units from 1.888 mln in December, the Commerce Department said. The January fall came after a strong 6.4 pct rise from November's rate of 1.774 mln units and brought completions to 6.7 pct above the January, 1986, level of 1.765 mln units. In January, completions of single-family units rose 0.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted 1.183 mln units from 1.178 mln units in December while multi-family units fell 1.3 pct to 701,000 units in January, the department said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSING COMPLETIONS FELL 0.2 PCT IN JANUARY

U.S. Completions of new homes fell 0.2 pct in January to a seasonally adjusted rate of 1.884 mln units from 1.888 mln in December, the Commerce Department said. The January fall came after a strong 6.4 pct rise from November's rate of 1.774 mln units and brought completions to 6.7 pct above the January, 1986 level of 1.765 mln units. In January, completions of single-family units rose 0.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted 1.183 mln units from 1.178 mln units in December while multi-family units fell 1.3 pct to 701,000 units in January, the department said. Reuter 
AMEX TRADING CHEMICAL WASTE <CHW> OPTIONS

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has started put and call option trading in Chemical Waste Management Inc stock as a replacement for options on Chesebrough-Ponds's Inc, which was recently acquired. Initial expiration months are June and September and initial exercise prices 30 and 35, it said. Position and exercise limits are 5,500 contracts on the same side of the market. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-5/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
CHINA BUYS U.S. HARD AND SOFT WHEAT

Private exporters said China bought a total of 550,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat under the export enhancement program, with final confirmation by the U.S. Department of Agriculture of the subsidies still awaited. The purchase consisted of a total of 340,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat for various May/Aug shipments, with 210,000 tonnes of soft red winter for Aug/Sept, the exporters said. Reuter 
CANADA OKAYS VIPONT LABS <VLAB> TOOTHPASTE

Vipont Laboratories Inc said the Canadian Bureau of Non-Prescription Drugs approved its Viadent toothpaste and oral rinse for marketing. The company also said it finalized an agreement with a Canadian marketing company to introduce the product in the country. It said Viadent helps prevent plaque build-up and inflamed gums. The products should be available in Canada in three to four months, the company added. Reuter 
MITCHELL ENERGY <MND> AGAIN CUTS CAPITAL OUTLAYS

Mitchell Energy and Development Corp said it plans to hold its capital spending in fiscal 1988, ending January 31, to 96 mln dlrs, down from the 123 mln dlrs spent in 1987 and 213 mln dlrs in 1986. The company also said its natural gas revenues so far this year have been reduced by lower contract customer purchases due to mild weather and soft economic conditions. "But the contracts call for the lower 'takes' to be made up during the course of the year," Mitchell Energy said. Meanwhile it will sell additional quantities of gas on the spot market. Mitchell Energy said the additional spot sales will tend to lower the average price realized for gas in the early part of fiscal 1988. However, it said the average for the full year is not expected to be significantly lower than the 2.99 dlrs per thousand cubic feet averaged in fiscal 1987. Reuter 
NYSE SAYS GENERAL REFRACTORIES <GRX> NO COMMENT

The New York Stock Exchange said General Refractories Co had no comment on the activity in its stock. The company's shares were trading off 1-1/2 at 15-1/4. The exchange said it contacted the company and asked if there were any corporate developments to explain the unusual activity. The company declined to issue a statement, the NYSE said. Reuter 
EC CONCERNED OVER U.S. TEXTILE IMPORT MOVES

The European Community (EC) expressed disquiet over protectionist moves in the United States to limit imports of textiles and said it would retaliate immediately if EC exports were hit. A spokeswoman for the EC Commission said EC External Trade Commissioner Willy De Clercq had written to his U.S. Counterpart, special U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, outlining the concerns of the 12-nation Community. The draft legislation under consideration by Congress would impose permanent quotas on products entering the U.S. and seek to limit any increase to a growth in the overall trade. Reuter 
ENERGY/FOREIGN INVESTORS

Lured by the weakening dollar and the conviction that oil prices are poised for a rebound, European energy companies are buying up cheap U.S. oil and gas reserves to replenish their supplies, oil industry analysts said. They said owning oil reserves in a politically stable United States is good insurance against future shortages. However, the quick pace of foreign investment has heated up competition among European firms, well-heeled U.S. institutional investors and major oil companies to snare choice domestic oil properties. Strevig and Associates, a Houston firm that tracks oil and gas reserve sales, said growing interest among foreign buyers had helped push reserve prices in recent months higher. All buyers of U.S. reserves paid a median price of 6.45 dlrs a barrel of oil during the fourth quarter of 1986 for acquisitions, up from 5.33 dlrs in the third quarter and five dlrs in the second quarter, according to the firm's research. "Foreign investors have been here nibbling a long time, but we're seeing new names and smaller companies coming in," said Arthur Smith, an oil property appraisal specialist and president of John S. Herold Inc in Greenwich, Conn. "Europeans, especially, do not have much indigenous oil and gas and realize the tide will eventually turn in favor of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries," he added. Smith and other oil industry analyst and economists believe the trend in foreign investments will continue in 1987 because of the fall in value of the U.S. dollar, the perception that oil prices have hit bottom and the fact that it is cheaper to buy new reserves than to explore for them. Plenty of properties are available on the market, thanks to the need of many companies to raise cash for debt payments and general restructuring throughout the oilpatch. In two of the biggest transactions of recent months, French-owned Minatome Corp., a unit of <Total Compagnie Francaise des Petroles>, spent more than 230 mln dlrs to separately acquire oil assets of Texas International <TEICC> and Lear Petroleum Partners <LPP>. A spokesman for Minatome said the company is searching for additional acquisitions. A partnership of two Belgian-owned firms, <Petrofina S.A.> and <Cometra Oil S.A.> paid 150 mln dlrs late last year to buy virtually all the exploration assets of the Williams Cos <WMB>, the Oklahoma pipeline firm. But Japanese investors prefer entering into joint ventures with experienced U.S. companies to explore for new oil. Japan's <Nippon Oil> is a partner of Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco USA in a 100 mln dlrs U.S. drilling program, and has joined with Dupont's <DD> Conoco Inc in a similar 135 dlrs mln deal. Most buyers said the pay-back period of a property, its geographic location and the lifting cost of the crude oil are more important factors in evaluating potential acquisitions than relying on a simple price-per-barrel formula. Rich Hodges, a Houston-based land manager representing International Oil and Gas Corp, a partnership of <Preussag Corp> and <C. Deilmann Inc> of West Germany, said the firm had earmarked at least 50 mln dlrs to spend on oil reserves in Texas, Oklahoma or Louisiana in the coming months. But he called that a small amount compared to the amount other investors have for acquisitions. PaineWebber's Geodyne Energy Income Fund, for example, has said it plans to spend up to 300 mln dlrs on oil and gas properties. "The competition is stiff, not only from other foreign investors but from the brokerage houses and U.S. oil companies," he said. "Our company is shopping around because we feel it's substantially less risky than pure exploration. If you're going to take the risk inherent in exploration, you need prices higher than the current market," he added. In addition to the foreign investors and U.S. brokerage houses, analysts said many of the major oil companies were also competing for prime properties. Houston-based Shell Oil Co, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD>, has been one of the most active companies in buying and selling reserves, Smith said. Since 1982, Shell has acquired two billion dlrs in new reserves, including 470 mln barrels of oil equivalent at a net cost of 2.80 dlrs a barrel, he said. "Buying reserves is a good strategy for most of these companies," Smith said. "Domestic production has dropped by one mln barrels a day because of cutbacks in drilling and it may drop by another one mln barrels a day in 1988." Reuter 
RLR FINANCIAL <RLRF> WON'T BE DELISTED

RLR Financial Services Inc said the National Association of Securities Dealers has decided not to delist its stock from NASDAQ on March 12 as it had threatened. The company said the NASD has granted it an indeterminate amount of time to resolve issues raised by the NASD on the market making of RLR's RLR Securities Group Inc subsidiary in shares of the parent company. The NASD had alleged that no registration statement for the shares was in effect. RLR contested the charge but stopped market making in its own stock. Reuter 
CHRONAR <CRNR> IN JOINT VENTURE IN YUGOSLAVIA

Chronar Corp said it signed a joint venture agreement with <Rade Koncar>, a Yugoslav maker of electric energy equipment, to build a 12 mln dlr, one megawatt photovaltaic manufacturing plant in Split, Yugoslavia. Under the agreement, Rade Koncar will own 60 pct of the venture and Chronar will own 40 pct, Chronar said. Chronar said it will receive 7.5 mln dlrs for supplying equipment and technology and will invest 2.5 mln dlrs for its 40 pct stake. It said it cancelled a previous pact with a Yugoslav firm because the firm could not raise enough capital. Reuter 
AMERICAN PRESIDENT <APS> TO LEASE MORE SHIPS

American President Cos Ltd said its American President Lines shipping subsidiary obtained final approval from U.S. and Japanese authorities to lease four new ships from Lykes Bros Co. The move will will enable it to boost service in the Pacific by 15 pct in 1987, American President said. The company said it will lease the ships for three years and hold two additional three-year options. It said American President Lines is currently operating at capacity in the Pacific and the new ships will arrive in time for the normal demand surge of the spring and summer seasons. Reuter 
EMERSON <EMR> SELLS NEW ZEALAND DOLLAR NOTES

Emerson Electric Co is offering in the U.S. debt market 100 mln New Zealand dlrs of notes due 1989 with an 18.55 pct coupon and par pricing, said lead underwriter Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. That is 170 basis points below comparable New Zealand rates. Non-callable to maturity, the issue is rated a top-flight AAA by both Moody's Investors Service Inc and Standard and Poor's Corp. Reuter 
<BANK OF CHINA> TO JOIN VISA NETWORK

<Visa International>, owned by a consortium of banks, said Bank of China has agreed to become a Visa member in May, and a Visa card will be issued for use in China and around the world. No international credit cards are currently issued in China. Visa said plans are underway to install electronic terminals at Visa-accepting merchants in China later this year to authorize the growing number of credit card transactions by tourists and minimize operating risks. Visa said it plans to extend its worldwide telecommunications network to China this year through a satellite link, allowing authorization requests to be forwarded to card issuers around the world. Over 1,000 merchants in China now honor the Visa card and the number is expected to double by the end of next year, it said, and card transactions in China are expected to rise 50 pct from the current 130 mln dlrs a year during 1987. Visa International said it is already designing the Visa card that Bank of China will issue. Reuter 
DOLE SAYS 0/92 OPTION SHOULD BE CONSIDERED

U.S. Senate Republican leader Robert Dole said Congress should consider legislation to apply the so-called 0/92 option to producers of major commodities. Dole told the National Corn Growers Association that he thought the proposal, supported by the Reagan administration, "should be seriously considered" because a refusal to do so could "play into the hands of those who want mandatory controls" placed on production. However, Dole did not say whether he would support the 0/92 option, which would offer producers at least 92 pct of their income support payments regardless of how much they planted. The Senate Republican leader said the 0/92 option posed two problems. First, it is viewed, he said, by some as welfare. In addition, debate on the proposal could open up the whole farm bill, Dole said. Dole also repeated his call for an across-the-board export enhancement program, saying a subsidy offer to the Soviet Union could help improve U.S. relations with that country. Dole said that the United States has made the decision to trade with Moscow and that it's important to offer competitive prices. The senator predicted Congress would have to decide this year whether to require an expansion of the export subsidy program, which currently targets benefits to recapture markets lost to other suppliers which subsidize. Dole, who last year pledged to offer legislation to require a marketing loan for major crops but never did so, again called for the marketing loan for wheat and feedgrains. The Reagan administration's proposed farm policy changes "are not going anywhere" this year, Dole said, singling out the proposal to cut target prices 10 pct per year. Asked by reporters after his speech whether he sensed a shift in the State Department towards supporting an export enhancement initiative for the Soviet Union, Dole said he didn't see any change. Dole also said it would be a very close call in the Senate whether to open up the farm bill to general debate this year. Dole said he was encouraged by the selection of Republican David Karnes to replace the late Sen. Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.) Reuter 
ERICSSON <ERICY> WINS ORDER FROM WEST GERMANY

L.M. Ericsson Telephone Co of Sweden said it was awarded a 7.5 mln dlr contract to supply its Alfaskop computer terminals to the West German Bundespost, West Germany's telecommunications and postal administration. Ericsson said the contract covers 2,000 terminals, which will be used by West German post offices. Reuter 
DOLE MULLS BILL TO EXTEND ETHANOL TAX EXEMPTION

U.S. Senate Republican leader Robert Dole (R-Kan.) said he and a group of Republican lawmakers are considering introducing legislation to extend the ethanol tax exemption through the year 2000. Dole, addressing the National Corn Growers Association board, said the proposal was under consideration by a rural task force of Republican members of Congress and governors. Gasoline containing at least 10 pct ethanol now receives a six cents per gallon exemption from a nine cent federal excise tax. The exemption is to expire the end of 1992. Ethanol is produced primarily by a few large agribusiness firms including Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) and A.E. Staley. The tax exemption has helped bolster ethanol production despite a sharp drop in the prices of competing crude oil. Reuter 
CFTC APPROVES MGE CORN SYRUP FUTURES CONTRACT

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has approved the Minneapolis Grain Exchange's application to trade high fructose corn syrup-55, HFCS-55, futures contracts, the commission said. The contract provides for the delivery of 48,000 lbs, plus or minus two pct, of bulk HFCS-55 meeting specified standards regarding its physical and chemical properties. CFTC said the exchange plans to begin trading a July 1987 HFCS-55 contract on April 6. CFTC said the soft drink industry currently buys at least 95 pct of all U.S.-produced HFCS-55, a liquid food and beverage sweetener produced through the processing of corn starch by corn refiners. Reuter 
BRAZILIAN FCOJ OFFICIAL WELCOMES U.S. DUTY CUT

Mario Branco Peres, president of the Brazilian Association of Citrus Juice Industries (Abrassuco), welcomed a decision by the U.S. Commerce Department sharply cutting its duties on imported frozen concentrated orange juice (FCOJ) from Brazil. Speaking by telephone from Sao Paulo, Peres said, "With its decision, the U.S. government recognised the honesty of Brazilian exporters, who never have the intention of practising dumping." In a final ruling yesterday, the U.S. government eliminated the duties shipped by Sucocitrico Cutrale and cut to 1.96 pct the duty on Citrosuco. Duties of 8.54 pct had been set last October. Peres said Brazil had enough orange juice to meet the needs of its major clients. "We do not have in stock what we would like to have, but we certainly have enough orange juice available to supply our buyers," Peres said, declining to estimate the amount of the current stock. "To keep it a secret is part of our strategy," he added. Peres said the price policy of the orange juice was based on market conditions. "There is nothing better than a free trade policy," he said. Cutrale and Citrosuco officials were not immediately available for comment. Reuter 
SOUTH KOREA TO KEEP TRADE SURPLUS 3-5 YEARS

South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae said his nation would maintain a trading surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its foreign debt. He said in an interview with Reuter that after a few years it was likely South Korea would drop barriers to foreign goods and move toward a more balanced trade position. He said the present trade surplus was vital if his nation was to reduce its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt. Rha said that 1986 was the first year South Korea had a trade surplus - 4.5 billion dlrs, against a 1985 deficit of 900 mln dlrs. Rha made his remarks at the end of a two-week trade mission here during which a team he led agreed to buy U.S. products valued at 1.8 billion dlrs. About 800 mln dlrs of the purchases here were in goods of the type South Korea normally bought from Japan. Rha leaves today for Ottawa for trade talks with Canadian officials and businessmen. Asked if South Korea would retaliate against U.S. goods if Congress closed U.S. markets to its products, he said "at this moment, we have no thought of retaliation." South Korea is a major exporter to the U.S. of textiles and apparel and electronic goods, such as television sets, video cassette records and personal computers. Its purchases from the United States include electronic testing equipment, grains and cotton. Reuter 
USDA ACCEPTS BONUS WHEAT OFFERS FOR CHINA

The Commodity Credit Corp (CCC) has accepted bids for export bonuses to cover sales of 340,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat and 210,000 tonnes of soft red winter wheat to China, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The bonuses awarded averaged 36.22 dlrs per tonne, and the wheat is scheduled for delivery during May-Oct 1987. The bonus awards were made to Cargill, Inc (305,000 tonnes), Continental Grain Co (155,000 tonnes), Mitsubishi International Corp (60,000 tonnes) and Richco Grain Co (30,000 tonnes). Bonuses will be paid to the exporters in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. The purchases complete the Export Enhancement Program initiative for China announced Jan 26. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 455,000 TONNES  OF WHEAT SOLD TO CHINA FOR 1986/87 AND 1987/88



TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 10

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 10 to 2.842 billion dlrs from 3.073 billion dlrs the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 9.828 billion dlrs from 11.418 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 12.670 billion dlrs on March 10 compared with 14.490 billion dlrs on March 9. Reuter 
U.S. AGENCIES DISAGREE OVER IRAN COMPUTER SALES

Two U.S. government agencies are in dispute over a proposal for U.S. firms to sell computers to Iran, officials said. The Commerce Department said it intends to approve export licenses for two firms to sell computers and related equipment to the Islamic Republic of Iran News Agency and the Iran Power Generation Transmission, spokesman B. Jay Cooper said. The export companies were not identified, but the sales included computers made by Digital Equipment Co <DEC> of Maynard, Mass. High-technology exports must be approved by the departments of Commerce, Defense and State. The Pentagon will appeal Commerce's approval of the sales because the technology could be turned against U.S. national security, Commander Bob Prucha, a Pentagon spokesman, said. The Pentagon will ask the National Security Council in the White House to prohibit the sales. Cooper said the State Department did not object to the sales, but Secretary of State George Shultz indicated he may weigh in against the deal. Under questioning by Rep. Jack Kemp (R-NY) at a hearing, Shultz said he was unaware that the Commerce Department was preparing to grant export licenses for the sale of computers. "I'm not in favor of sales to Iran" of advanced U.S. technology, Shultz said. The Commerce Department has argued that excessive restrictions hurt U.S. companies that compete with foreign exporters. Cooper said the technology in the Iranian sales was available elsewhere and that foreign companies would get the Iran business if the U.S. export licenses were not approved. Reuter 
OREGON LUMBER COMPANY TO SELL WOOD TO IRAQ

A Portland-based wood products company has signed a 13 mln dlr contract with the Iraqi government to supply finished softwood lumber to Iraq, Edward Niedermeyer, president of Niedermeyer-Martin Co said yesterday. Niedermeyer told the House Foreign Affairs sub-committee on International Economic Policy and Trade in Washington that the sales agreement contains an option that could make lumber exported worth more than 20 mln dlrs. The delivery of about 8.0 mln dlrs worth of plywood, in addition to lumber, hinges on whether the U.S. Department of Agriculture will interpret plywood as an agricultural commodity under the credit guarantee program, he said. Niedermeyer said the government export credit guarantee program (GSM-102) administered by the USDA was the key to opening the Iraqi market which up to now had been captured by Scandinavian lumber producers. "This is the first time we have been able to sell wood products in Iraq, he said. Without the USDA program it would not have been possible. We hope this will lead to a long term export market for U.S. lumber products." He said the contract calls for supplying 21 mln board feet to 30 mln board feet of softwood lumber for housing, construction and furniture manufacturing. He estimated the profit potential for his company on the sale at five to six pct. Niedermeyer spent two weeks in Baghdad negotiating the sale late last month and early March. He is a member of the United States-Iraq Business Forum, a non-profit group designed to promote commerce with Iraq. The forum members include Westinghouse and General Electric, but Niedermeyer's company is the only wood products firm on the membership roster. Reuter 
MEXICO VEG OIL TAX NOT AIMED AT SUNFLOWER--USDA

The Mexican Secretariat of Commerce has told the U.S. that recent implementation of a 10 pct ad valorem tariff for fixed vegetable oils, fluid or solid, crude, refined or purified, was not targeted at sunflower oil, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said the increase in tariffs on this category which includes sunflower, corn and rapeseed oils, was a reaction to importers using basket categories to avoid paying tariffs on specific high-tariff products. Reuter 
ALCOA DECLINES SPECIFIC COMMENT ON OPTIONS TRADE

Alcoa officials acknowledged the possibility that they may have a position in the off-exchange aluminum options market, but declined specific comment on trade speculation that the company is holding a large outstanding position. An Alcoa (Aluminum Company of America) source involved in terminal trading for the company said: "We use all means available to manage our business, so it's a possibility we're trading options." "We won't go into specifics about what we're doing. But when you're dealing in un-alloyed ingot, it's a commodity business where there are a lot of tools available (for hedging) and Alcoa is using all of those tools," said Al Posti, Alcoa's manager of corporate news. Trade sources have said Alcoa is long call options equal to 30,000 to 50,000 tonnes of aluminum due to mature in April and May. However, some New York-based aluminium traders said they believe the size of Alcoa's position has been exaggerated. The possibility that Alcoa may be long call options is one factor indicating that supply tightness may worsen in the second quarter, traders said. "If they decide to exercise their right to buy, it would mean really squeezing the market," one New York trader said, noting that aluminum stocks on the London Metal Exchange were 90,500 tonnes at the end of last week. Reuter 
TURNER BROADCASTING'S <TBS> CNN TO AIR IN CHINA

Turner Broadcasting System Inc's CNN said it reached an agreement with China Central Television to air its news programming in China. It said China Central TV will use CNN reports during its daily newscasts on two channels, reaching an audience of about 300 mln viewers. The company said the agreement also gives CNN the right to sell advertising spots on China Central TV. CNN also said it reached an agreement with Televerket Kabel TV of Sweden to broadcast 24-hour news on its cable TV network. The program will reach an initial 118,000 viewers. Reuter 
SENATOR LUGAR CALLS FOR CARGO PREFERENCE REPEAL

The senior Republican on the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee, Richard Lugar of Indiana, called for repeal of the cargo preference law that aids the American shipping industry but which he said hurts farmers. "Cargo preference is a costly special interest operated at the expense of American farmers and dockworkers," Lugar said in signing on as a co-sponsor or cargo preference repeal legislation. The law requires shipment of U.S. goods on American ships rather than foreign vessels which are less costly. Reuter 
BIG U.S. CONSERVATION ENROLLMENT EXPECTED

Enrollment in the U.S. Agriculture Department's fourth conservation signup is expected to be announced tomorrow, and USDA officials said the figure may be higher than total enrollment for the first three signups. Enrollment will be in the range of seven to 12 mln acres, USDA conservation specialists said. Total enrollment so far in the 10-year conservation program is 8.9 mln acres. Producers submitted bids to enter 11 to 12 mln acres into the program, Milton Hertz, administrator for USDA's Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service said at a congressional hearing yesterday. Not all the bids will be accepted, Hertz said, but enrollment is expected to be high. As in the first three signups, the Great Plains area is expected to attract the greatest enrollment. "The Great Plains area will be the predominate area which we'll get signup in," a USDA conservation specialist said. Marginal corn acreage will likely be the bulk of the acreage pulled from that area, he said. Fringe soybean acres in the southeast and some bean acreage in the midwest are also expected to be taken out of production, but the USDA source said this would be a relatively small percent of the total. A special two dlr bonus to corn producers who enroll part of their corn base acreage into the program has sparked more interest in this latest signup, USDA officials said. Under the program, USDA pays farmers annual rents to take land out of production for 10 years. The average rent payment accepted in the first three signups was 43.50 dlrs per acre. Reuter 
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK

Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 8.8 mln barrels in the week ended March six to 119.6 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department of Energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 500,000 barrels in the week to 251.0 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks fell 1.2 mln barrels to 331.8 mln. The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 1.5 mln barrels to 36.4 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 200,000 barrels to 516.7 mln. The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks fell 10.3 mln barrels to 1,564.8, it said. Reuter 
PHILIPPINE DEBT TALKS DELAYED FOR CONSULTATIONS

Today's debt rescheduling talks between the Philippines government and its bank advisory committee were postponed until Thursday to give the banks more time to consider Manila's novel proposal for paying part of its interest bill in notes instead of cash, bankers said. The committee banks met briefly earlier today and decided that they needed more time in particular to consider a news report which quoted a Reagan Administration official as urging that the proposal be given serious consideration. "The banks felt that this was new information and that further consultation was called for," one banker said. In a despatch yesterday from Washington, Reuters quoted the official as saying Manila's plan to pay some interest with notes that could be converted into equity investments in the Philippines was fully consistent with the Reagan Administration strategy for handling developing country debt. "The Philippine proposal is very interesting, it's quite unique and I don't think it's something that should be categorically rejected out of hand," the official said. Because of the key role the U.S. plays in the debt crisis, foreign banks in particular wanted time to analyze the significance of the policymaker's comments, bankers said. Reuter 
USX <X> UNIT TO RAISE MOST CRUDE POSTINGS

USX's subsidiary, Marathon Petroleum Co, said it will raise its contract prices for eleven grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective tomorrow. The increase brings Marathon's posted price for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. The Light Louisiana grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a barrel. Reuter 
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 1.9 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 1.9 pct in the four weeks ended March six to 16.39 mln barrels per day from 16.08 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was down 2.2 pct in the period to 3.33 mln bpd from 3.40 mln a year earlier. Gasoline demand averaged 6.75 mln bpd, up 3.3 pct from 6.53 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.40 mln bpd, off 2.7 pct from 1.43 mln, the EIA said. Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.38 mln bpd, down 8.5 pct from 9.15 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.67 mln bpd, up 23 pct from 2.97 mln, the EIA said. Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.05 mln bpd, up 1.5 pct from 11.87 mln a year earlier, it said. Year-to-date figures will not become available until March 26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987 becomes available, the agency said. Reuter 
U.S. SAYS NUCLEAR TEST BLEW DEBRIS OUTSIDE USSR

The United States charged that a Soviet nuclear test last month blew radioactive debris outside the Soviet Union in violation of a test ban treaty. The State Department, which made the charge in a statement, gave no details of where the debris had landed or what level of radioactivity had been measured. It said Moscow had been told of U.S. concern over the incident. U.S. officials refused to give details of the fall-out, saying it would reveal how the intelligence had been gathered. The Soviet test took place near the Siberia, Kazakhstan boarder, according to Swedish monitors. REUTER 
U.S. ECONOMIC DATA KEY TO DEBT FUTURES OUTLOOK

U.S. economic data this week could be the key in determining whether U.S. interest rate futures break out of a 3-1/2 month trading range, financial analysts said. Although market expectations are for February U.S. retail sales Thursday and industrial production Friday to show healthy gains, figures within or slightly below expectations would be positive for the market, the analysts said. "You have to be impressed with the resiliency of bonds right now," said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane. Treasury bond futures came under pressure today which traders linked to a persistently firm federal funds rate and a rise in oil prices. However, when sufficient selling interest to break below chart support in the June contract failed to materialize, participants who had sold bond futures early quickly covered short positions, they said. "Everyone is expecting strong numbers, and if they come in as expected it won't be that bad for the market," Sloane said. Sloane said the consensus estimate for the non-auto sector of retail sales is for a rise of 0.6 to 0.7 pct. Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs said a retail sales figure below market forecasts would give a boost to debt futures, and she put the range for the non-auto sector of retail sales at up 0.8 to 1.2 pct. Industrial production and the producer price index Friday both are expected to show increases of about 0.5 pct, she added. Retail sales "will tell us whether or not we will be able to fill the gap," Gibbs said, referring to a chart gap in June bonds between 100-26/32 and 101-3/32 created Friday. June bonds closed at 100-4/32 today. Also key to debt futures direction, in addition to the federal funds rate, is the direction of crude oil prices, said Carroll McEntee and McGinley Futures analyst Brian Singer. "A higher fed funds rate and firm oil prices precluded the market from breaking out of the trading range the last time the market approached the top of the range," Singer said. In order for bonds to break above the top of the range, which is just below 102 in the June contract, "the crude oil rally needs to run its course and pull back a little bit," Singer said. "Fed funds are already easing back down toward the six pct level." The recent surge in oil prices has also been a concern to Manufacturers Hanover Futures analyst Jim Rozich, but the rally may be nearing a top around 18.50 dlrs per barrel, he said. Rozich said he is looking for the June bond contract to ease to 99-6/32 and find support. "I'm not quite ready to jump on the bullish bandwagon yet. The jury is still out this week," Rozich said. Reuter 
CLARK SAYS HE EXPECTS U.S. ACTION ON ACID RAIN

Canadian Foreign Secretary Joe Clark, winding up a two-day visit to Washington, said he expected the Reagan administration to take some action on reducing acid rain. "My impression is there will be some movement by the United States administration on acid rain (but) how much movement I can't judge or predict," he told reporters. The meetings with American officials are part of a routine U.S.-Canada consultation but are also expected to lay the groundwork for a summit in Ottawa next month between President Reagan and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Clark today held discussions with Treasury Secretary James Baker and Democratic Sens. Patrick Moynihan of New York, Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and George Mitchell of Maine. Yesterday, he held talks with Vice President George Bush, Secretary of State George Shultz and Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige. Among its priorities, Canada is seeking evidence that Reagan is prepared to live up to a commitment made last year to implement in the United States a five-year 5 billion U.S. dlr program to test cleaner ways of burning coal. This issue was discussed at length with Baker and several of the senators, including Mitchell who urged Canada to "keep the heat on" the Reagan administration to force action, Canadian officials said. Also taken up with most of the senators and Baker were trade issues, including the need for the United States and Canada to establish a better mechanism for settling trade disputes between the two countries, who are each other's major trading partner, Canadian officials said. Reuter 
RAN SCANDAL PARTICIPANT TO GET IMMUNITY OFFER

Albert Hakim, an arms merchant, is the first top-ranked player in the Iran arms scandal who may be enticed into testifying by the promise of immunity, investigators said. The House Select committee probing the Iran arms scandal has voted to grant limited immunity from criminal prosecution to Hakim in return for his testimony. Hakim, 51, was said deeply involved from the start in the attempt to trade arms to Iran for help in freeing American hostages in Lebanon and the diversion of funds and arms to rebels in Nicaragua. Reuter 
USX <X> PROVED OIL, GAS RESERVES FALL IN 1986

USX Corp said proved reserves of oil and natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at the end of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985. The figures, in USX's just-released 1986 annual report, indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7 mln barrels of Libyan reserves, after the U.S. government last June directed U.S. oil companies to end Libyan operations. USX, which owns Marathon Oil Co and Texas Oil and Gas Corp, had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oil and gas operations. About 24 pct of total sales came from USX's USS steel unit and 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfield services, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate. According to the report, domestic liquids reserves fell slightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreign reserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. The large drop in foreign reserves was in the Middle East and Africa, where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln, reflecting the exclusion of Libya. Total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feet at year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985. Again, most of the drop came from the Middle East and Africa, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubic feet, excluding Libyan reserves. U.S. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feet from 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillion from 1.53 trillion. In other areas, USX said total capital spending fell to 962 mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. The 1986 audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unaudited figure the company reported on Jan 27. USX also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrs in 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investment tax credits allowable under the new tax law. The loss of the other half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter. In a discussion of steel results, USX said plants that were shut down last month and some previously idled plants may be permanently closed. USX took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03 billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. The charge included the "indefinite idling" last month of four plants in Utah, Pennsylvania and Texas. Other plants or parts of plants in Pennsylvania, Indiana, Alabama, Ohio and Chicago had been previously idled. "These operations are not permanently shut down. Improved market conditions for the products from these plants may make it feasible to reopen some of them," USX said in the report. "On the other hand, a lack of any future market improvement may necessitate their permanent closing," it added. Reuter 
HOUSE VOTES TO BLOCK CONTRA AID FOR SIX MONTHS

The House voted to block 40 mln dlrs in military aid to the Nicaraguan rebels until President Reagan accounts for past assistance, including money diverted from the U.S. sale of arms to Iran. The vote was seen as a temporary defeat for Reagan, who has made aid to the "contras" a key initiative. Congressional Democratic leaders have conceded that despite today's vote, they can not muster a two-thirds majority to override a certain Reagan veto. But they have said it is likely they can win a battle expected this fall over 105 mln dlrs iin new aid Reagan is requesting. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL TAKES FIRST TRADE BILL VOTES

House trade lawmakers took their first votes on measures designed to toughen U.S. trade laws but held over until tomorrow the most difficult votes on controversial plans to protect American industries. Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee failed to resolve one of the most sensitive issues in the bill--whether they will force major foreign trading partners to severely cut their trade surpluses with the United States. The subcommittee is considering a toned-down version of Democratic-sponsored trade legislation that aims to open foreign markets but which drops last year's effort to force President Reagan to retaliate with quotas or tariffs. Congressional aides who asked not to be identified said the lawmakers intend to wrap up their proposals tomorrow and will consider a proposal to mandate retaliation without setting specific trade penalties. The legislation faces another hurdle in the full Ways and Means Committee next week before the full House votes on it. Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat who is seeking his party's 1988 presidential nomination, said he may offer an amendment to call for reductions in the trade surpluses of those countries with barriers to imports of U.S. goods. This would be a moderated version of his earlier plan to force a mandatory ten per cent annual cut in the trade surplus with the United States by Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, West Germany and other countries with the largest trade imbalances. "My criteria for a good amendment sets a standard for getting the trade deficit down," he told reporters. The trade law changes are to become part of a major congressional and administration effort to turn around the record U.S. trade deficit of 169 billion dlrs last year by opening up foreign markets and making U.S. products more competitive. House Speaker James Wright, a Texas Democrat, said again today he expects the full House will approve the trade bill by May and that Reagan will accept the final congressional bill. "I expect whatever is reported (by the Ways and Means Committee) will pass. We will have a good bill and an effective bill," he told reporters. The comprehensive trade bill will include work by other committees to ease export controls on high technology, to aid U.S. workers displaced by foreign competition, to stimulate research and development, to remove foreign trade barriers and to improve education and worker training. The lawmakers agreed that for the first time a U.S. industry could charge foreign producers with unfair competition if they deny basic worker rights such as collective bargaining, safety rules and payment of a minimum wage appropriate to the country's economic development. They transferred to U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter the powers now held by Reagan to decide whether to retaliate against foreign violations of fair trade rules and whether an injured industry deserves import relief. They agreed to make it easier for a company to get temporary relief from import competition but agreed the industry should provide a plan to become competitive. The administration has not announced its support but Yeutter said yesterday, "I am cautiously optimistic," that the Democratic-led House will come up with an acceptable bill. Reuter 
TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker declined comment on the February 22 Paris accord between the six major industrial nations under which they agreed to foster exchange rate stability. Asked by reporters after a speech before the National Fitness Foundation banquet what, if any, currency intervention levels had been set in Paris, Baker replied: "We never talk about intervention." Baker also declined to comment on his views about the foreign exchange markets' reaction to the accord. REUTER 
S.KOREA TO BUY MORE COTTON, ESPECIALLY U.S. COTTON

South Korea plans to import about 387,000 tonnes of cotton this year compared to 225,000 tonnes in 1986, trade ministry officials said. More than three quarters of the total, some 290,000 tonnes, will come from the United States. That will be a 93.7 pct increase on 1986 when U.S. Imports totalled 150,000 tonnes, an official said. He said the U.S. Increase is due partly to the competitiveness of American cotton and partly to efforts by Seoul to reduce its trade surplus with Washington. South Korea is the second largest importer of U.S. Cotton after Japan. REUTER 
TAIWAN BUYS 27,000 TONNES OF U.S. SOYBEANS

The joint committee of Taiwan's soybean importers awarded a contract to Richco Grain Ltd of New York to supply a 27,000-tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans, a committee spokesman told Reuters. The shipment, priced at 210.34 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan, is set for delivery between March 20 and April 5, he said. Taiwan's soybeans imports in calendar 1987 are targetted at 1.81 mln tonnes, against an actual 1.74 mln tonnes imported in 1986, he said. All the imports come from the U.S., He added. REUTER 
TAIWAN CLAMPS NEW CONTROLS ON CURRENCY INFLOWS

Taiwan's new controls on currency inflows, implemented today, are a desperate bid to stem a flood of speculative money prompted by the local currency surge against the U.S. Dollar, local and foreign bankers said. The central bank now has to clear remittances exceeding one mln U.S. Dlrs earned from exports, shipping and insurance and bank lending plus remittances of more than 10,000 dlrs from any other source. Petitioners have to show their remittances relate to genuine commercial transactions. Meanwhile, traders are no longer required to report all outward payments concerning invisible trade, including freight, insurance and royalties, to the central bank. But bankers said they believed the new controls would be ineffective since businessmen could split up remittances into smaller units or simply remit money through Taiwan's flourishing currency black market. The bankers said the controls, announced on March 6, are a panic reaction to U.S. Pressure, which has intensified over the past week, for a faster appreciation of the Taiwan dollar to slow the growth of Taiwan's exports to the U.S. The government has denied local press reports Washington is pressing for an exchange rate of up to 28 dlrs. The Taiwan dollar opened four cents up today at 34.70. "I don't think the central bank has a final target," said an executive with a U.S. Bank. Other bankers and economists said they are wary of making any firm predictions about how far the Taiwan dollar will rise. Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Hit 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year against 10.2 billion in 1985. The surplus widened in the first two months of the year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billion in the same period last year. Economists estimate up to five billion dlrs in speculative money flowed into Taiwan in 1986. This inflow helped boost foreign exchange reserves to more than 51 billion dlrs from just under 25 billion this time last year and provided further upward pressure on the currency. The Taiwan dollar has appreciated by almost 15 pct against the U.S. Currency since September 1985, further encouraging speculators. Central bank governor Chang Chi-cheng said last week Washington's pressure plus rising foreign exchange reserves meant a further strengthening in the currency is inevitable. Many local bankers argue the only effective solution to the currency problem is to drop foreign exchange controls and allow the local dollar to find its own level. "Lifting exchange controls is the final answer, but the central bank is not prepared to do it. It simply does not want to take the risk," said one local banker. He said he believed the new restrictions are a temporary measure designed to buy time as the central bank grapples with the exchange rate problem. The restrictions are a bureaucratic imposition and skirt around the real issue, he said. Taiwan needs a fundamental restructuring of foreign exchange controls, said an executive with a western bank. "The controls will create more paperwork, but the extra bank charges will not outweigh the profits of speculation," said the manager of a European bank. Economists criticised the controls, saying they could antagonise Washington, which is pushing for further economic liberalisation in Taiwan. "Instead of liberalising outflows, the government has restricted inflows," said Kate Newman, an economist with Vickers da Costa. A local banker, who declined to be named, said, "It's basically ridiculous. It's a backward movement and goes against the government's liberalisation programme." Taiwan last year eased some of its financial regulations to enable Taiwan nationals to invest in foreign government bonds, treasury bills and certificates of deposit and to allow individuals to take 5,000 U.S. Dlrs in cash out of the country each year. REUTER 
SCANDINAVIA PROPOSES DEREGULATING U.S. AIR FARES

Denmark, Norway and Sweden have jointly proposed deregulating air fares between Scandinavia and the U.S. In exchange for greater access to the domestic U.S. Airline market, Norwegian officials said. The proposal, handed to federal aviation authorities in Washington by a delegation from the three countries' transport ministries, was seen in the industry as a major concession to demands by U.S. Airlines to deregulate air fares to Scandinavia. The scheme in return requests the <Scandinavian Airlines System>, owned by Sweden, Denmark and Norway's governments, be allowed to compete freely and fairly in the U.S. Market. SAS, the only Scandinavian airline flying transatlantic routes to the U.S., Is currently allowed to land at only four U.S. Cities and has no commercial routes within the U.S. SAS has long held that regulations allowing U.S. Airlines' connecting flights from international to regional airports within Scandinavia have given these companies an advantage denied to SAS in the United States. Initial U.S. Reaction to the proposal has been positive, officials said. Industry sources added that if approved, the scheme would likely lower air fares dramatically between Scandinavia and the U.S. REUTER 
TREASURY SECRETARY BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON G-6

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker declined comment on the February 22 Paris accord between the six major industrial nations under which they agreed to foster exchange rate stability. Asked by reporters after a speech before the National Fitness Foundation banquet what, if any, currency intervention levels had been set in Paris, Baker replied: "We never talk about intervention." Baker also declined to comment on his views about the foreign exchange markets' reaction to the accord. Reuter 
U.S. RETAIL SALES ROSE 4.1 PCT IN FEB, NON-AUTO SALES ROSE 1.5 PCT



U.S. RETAIL SALES RISE 4.1 PCT IN FEBRUARY

U.S. retail sales rose 4.77 billion dlrs, or 4.1 pct, in February to a seasonally adjusted 122.29 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said. The increase came after a revised 7.4 pct drop in January sales to a level of 117.52 billion dlrs. The department previously reported January retail sales fell 5.8 pct. Excluding autos, retail sales in February were up 1.5 pct after falling by a revised 0.4 pct in January. Department spokesmen said the major cause for the revision downward in January sales was a weaker January auto dealer sales figure than originally estimated. Auto dealer sales were 26.91 billion dlrs in February, a 14.4 pct rise from January levels. But January sales dropped by 27.7 pct from December levels to 23.52 billion dlrs, more than the 22.4 pct fall originally reported. The expiration of the sales tax deduction under new tax laws on January 1 was the main reason for the drop in January sales, department spokesmen said. Sales of durable goods rose in February by 8.8 pct to 46.72 billion dlrs after dropping by 17.7 pct in January. Building materials rose 1.8 pct in February after falling by 1.7 pct in January. Non-durable goods sales rose by 1.3 pct to 75.58 billion dlrs in February after falling by 0.2 pct in January, the department said. General merchandise stores rose 1.4 pct after increasing sales by 1.6 pct in January, and department stores were up two pct in February after rising 1.5 pct in January. Food store sales increased 0.4 pct after declining by 1.0 pct in January, while grocery store sales increased 0.3 pct in February after falling 0.6 pct in January. Gasoline service station sales rose 2.0 pct in February after a 1.9 pct January increase. Apparel store sales were up 0.8 pct last month after falling 3.0 pct in January, while sales at eating and drinking places increased 1.5 pct after rising 0.5 pct in January. February's retail sales were 4.4 pct above the year-ago level of 117.09 billion dlrs, the department said. Reuter 
CBT HEAD SAYS POSITION LIMITS HAVE NO PURPOSE

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, should increase speculative position limits on agricultural futures and do away with them for financial futures, Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, chairman Karsten Mahlmann said. Reporting to the CFTC Financial Products Advisory Committee on the conclusions so far of an ad hoc CBT committee on off-exchange trading issues, Mahlmann said, "We came to the conclusion that no meaningful purpose is served by speculative position limits." Position limits were supposed to prevent market manipulation, but "I would submit that the Exchange and the CFTC currently have all the tools necessary to prevent market manipulation, whether an account is speculative or a hedge," the CBT chairman said. Malmann said the issue was of particular concern to the CBT because the exchange faced increasing competition from foreign markets, most of which did not have position limits. He said the ad hoc committee, which he also chairs, had agreed to propose that the definition of hedging be expanded to include risk management as well as risk reduction. Mahlmann said there was a danger that if a category of trading was given a name such as "non-speculative hedging," insurance companies and pension funds might be held back from engaging in it by the regulatory bodies that govern such entities. The ad hoc committee proposed the establishment of "prudence guidelines" and a list of market activities that fell within those lines which might be lengthened in the future, he said. The committee might also propose that CBT itself be allowed to enforce position limits on agricultural futures, he added. Reuter 
CANADA LEADERS FAIL TO SET PACT ON FREE TRADE

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said he held "frank" discussions with the Canadian province premiers on the pace of free trade talks with the United States, but the longstanding issue of provincial ratification remains to be settled. Speaking to reporters after nearly five hours of meetings with the 10 premiers, Mulroney said further discussions would be held in June and September to discuss the role of the provinces in approving any new trade deal. But he maintained progress was being made in the sweeping talks with the Unites States that got under nearly two years ago. "It appears reasonable progress is being made (in the talks)," Mulroney said. Alberta Premier Don Getty agreed, "Things are running pretty quickly now." The talks, launched by Mulroney's Progressive Conservative government after concerns about protectionist sentiment in the U.S., are aimed reducing the remaining barriers between the world's largest trading partnership. But the provinces are expected to play a major role in any new trading arrangement, and some of the provincial leaders complained of a lack of progress on reaching a ratification formula. "It's my view that we should be thinking about these things right now, along with the questions of the substance of the agreement," commented Ontario Premier David Peterson, who has been highly critical of the talks in the past. But Newfoundland Premier Brian Peckford said an agreement was more likely to emerge by consensus and there would be no need for a "hard and fast formula." Peckford said it appears Canada is prepared to make concessions to the United States on financial services in order to make inroads on other bargaining areas, such as agriculture. Canadian published reports, quoting government sources, say the two countries are close to reaching a trade deal and it will involve eliminating border tariffs and many non-tariff barriers over the next 10 to 12 years. A rough draft of the accord is expected to be presented to the premiers at the June meeting while the finished document is hoped to be presented to Congress in October. "It's a very tight time frame," Ontario's Peterson said last night. "But at this moment it is tough to say what will transpire." Reuter 
DUNE RESOURCES <DNLAF> RESERVES ROSE IN 1986

Dune Resources Ltd said its oil reserves increased 225 pct during 1986 while its natural gas reserves were up six pct. The company said its proven oil reserves were estimated at 605,682 barrels on December 31, up from 186,655 barrels a year earlier boosted by discoveries during the year put at 423,659 barrels. It said gas reserves rose to 8.8 mln cubic feet from 8.3 mln on Dec 31, 1985, as discoveries of nearly 1.3 mln cubic feet were partialy offset by production of 287,391 cubic feet and downward revisions of previous estimates totaling 491,694 cubic feet. Reuter 
TAIWAN TO RELAX IMPORT CURBS ON MORE GOODS

Taiwan will relax import controls on more foreign goods, a government spokesman said today. The move was to allow greater access to Taiwan markets by overseas trading partners, especially the United States, an official of the Council for Economic Planning and Development told Reuters. Import curbs on about 400 foreign goods, including stationery and books, would soon be relaxed, he said. Taiwan announced it would ease curbs on some 600 farming and industrial products last month. The official said the moves were intended to balance trade between Taiwan and the United States and other trading partners. Taiwan's trade surplus reached a record 15.6 billion dlrs last year, up from 10.62 billion in 1985. Reuter 
SYNERGETICS <SYNG> GETS CHINESE ORDER

Synergetics International Inc said it has received its first order from China, a 250,000 dlr order for a flood management system to be used in the Daning and Yuzixi river basins of the Yangtse River. The company also said it has received Japanese government certification for its satellite transmitter products, allowing users of Synergetics' remote computer systems to transmit a variety of hydrological and meteorological data via the Japan Space Agency's GMS satellite. In addition, it said it has appointed Vaisala KK of Helsinki as exclkusive distributor of its products throughout Japan and has awarded Sierra/Misco Inc expanded distribution rights, in the Philippines, Malaysia, Sumatra, Nepal, India, Bengal, Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia. Reuter 
COMBUSTION ENGINEERING <CSP> GETS THAI ORDER

Combustion Engineering Inc said the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand has exercised an option to purchase a 300 megawatt coal-fired steam generator from CEMAR, a consortium of Combustion Engineering Canada Inc and Japan's Marubeni Corp. Combustion Engineering said the project is valued at about 30 mln dlrs. The new steam generator, which will burn local lignite, will be manufactured in Canada and installed as Unit Nine at the Mae Moh power station in Lampang, Thailand. The unit is expected to go into commercial operation in 1990. Reuter 
CME CONTINUES DELIBERATION ON DUAL TRADING BAN

Directors of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) adjourned a meeting late last night without reaching a decision on a petition to ban dual trading in Standard and Poor's 500 stock index futures, an exchange official said. CME president Bill Brodsky told Reuters that the CME board would meet again today and probably reach a decision either late today or tomorrow. Dual trading involves the right of members to trade for their own account as well filling orders for customers. The petition, signed by several hundred exchange members when it was circulated on the floor of the CME two weeks ago, calls for the elimination of dual trading in the S and P pit. Some industry watchers believe that if the CME eliminates the practice other exchanges will have to consider such a move. The practice has drawn criticism from some sectors in that it provides an opportunity for abusive practices in which customer orders are not executed at the best possible price. One practice, know as "front-running," involves a broker trading ahead of a large customer order and then profiting by the impact on the market of the customer order. Reuter 
CCC REALLOCATES CREDIT GUARANTEES TO EL SALVADOR

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has reallocated two mln dlrs in credit gurantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. protein meals to cover sales of vegetable oil and tallow to El Salvador, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The action reduces coverage for sales of protein meals to 14 mln dlrs from 16 mln dlrs and creates new lines of one mln dlrs for tallow and/or greases and one mln dlrs for vegetable oils, the department said. All sales under the credit guarantee lines must be registered and exported by Sepember 30, 1987, it said. The guarantee rates include a charge to provide for a yearly interest rate coverage of up to 4.5 pct on the guaranteed value, the department said. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 290,000 to 310,000 head versus 309,000 week ago and 328,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to 131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 127,000 a year ago. Reuter 
NASD NAMES NEW BOARD MEMBER

The <National Association of Securities Dealers> said it has named Jaguar Cars Inc president Graham W. Whitehead as one of its three governors-at-large representing companies listed on the NASDAQ system. Jaguar Cars is the U.S. marketing arm of Jaguar PLC <JAGRY>, which was NASDAQ's third-most-actively traded issue in 1986. Reuter 
IGENE BIOTECHNOLOGY <IGNE> FINDS CROP LOSS AID

IGENE Biotechnology Inc said its research teams at Auburn and Hebrew universities have found its patented pesticide is highly effective in combating a disease reponsible for approximately three billion dlrs in annual crop losses. The company said it learned ClandoSan controls nematodes, deadly plant pathogens formerly controlled by now-banned synthetic chemicals. Varieties of the deadly disease attack major cash crops such as cotton, vegetables, orchard trees, citrus fruits, and garden plants, the company said. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE WELCOMES RETAIL SALES FIGURES

The White House welcomed the February retail sales figures showing a 4.1 pct rise, following a slow performance in January. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters: "The February sales growth was broad-based and good news for the economy." Commerce Department figures showed a larger than expected rise following depressed levels of sales and factory orders in January. Reuter 
TREASURY OFFICIAL SAYS PHILIPPINE PACT VERY NEAR

An agreement in the debt rescheduling talks between the Philippines and its commercial bank advisory committee seems to be close at hand, said David Mulford, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Treasury. "The Philippines negotiations resumed in early March and agreement now appears to be very near," Mulford told a debt conference, organized by the Euromoney magazine. Mulford gave no further details. He told reporters after his speech that he had no information on the banks' response to the Philippines' revised proposal, based on partial payment of interest with investment notes instead of cash. Progress in the Philippines talks, following recent agreements with Mexico, Chile and Venezuela, will help to dispel concerns of a new debt crisis, Mulford told the conference. However, he said there will continue to be difficulties and periods of significant risk, requiring creative thinking on the part of the banks. In particular, he urged the banks to develop a "menu of options for supporting debtor reforms as a means of maintaining broad bank participation in new financing packages." Mulford said the banks should be able to offer a range of options to members of the lending syndicates, provided that the liquidity value of the total transactions to the debtor nations is equivalent to the banks' new money obligation. He said it is more important to find ways of encouraging banks to remain in the syndicates than to find ways of enabling them to quit the lending groups. Mulford said his menu of options could include more trade credits, direct portfolio investments, debt/equity swaps, project loans, co-financings and the invesmtent note concept, which has been proposed by the Philippines. Reuter 
REAGAN SENDS CONGRESS FEDERAL CREDIT REFORM BILL

The White House said President Reagan would send to Congress today proposed legislation providing for sweeping reform of the budgetary treatment of the federal credit program. Called the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1987, the proposal consists of a package of legislation and accompanying budget amendments, said White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. He noted that in fiscal 1986 the federal government disbursed 42 billion dlrs in new direct loans and guaranteed loans totalling 159 billion dlrs. Under the reform bill, Fitzwater said the subsidy element in direct loan and guaranteed loan programs would be established and Congress would appropriate the amount of the subsidy to the lending agency. "This is kind of a truth in spending reform package," Fitzwater said. Reuter 
FOSTER WHEELER <FWC> UNIT SIGNS 90 MLN DLR PACT

Foster Wheeler Corp said its energy subsidiary signed a 90 mln dlr contract to design, engineer and construct two 550 mega-watt steam generators to be installed at the new Taichung Fossil Power project of Taiwan Power Co, Taiwan. The contract also includes an option for two additional 550 mega-watt units for the same site, the company said. Taiwan Power Co's long range plans call for the installation of a total of eight units at the station. Commercial operation of the two units is scheduled for June and December 1991, respectively, the company added. Reuter 
FED NOT EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is not expected to intervene in the government securities market today, several economists said. They said the Fed does not have a much of an adding need this week and may wait until tomorrow or Monday before supplying reserves. But a few economists said there was an outside chance that the Fed may inject reserves indirectly via a small round of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds hovered at 6-1/8 pct this morning after averaging 6.32 pct yesterday. Reuter 
U.S. RETAIL SALES RISE MASKS WEAK TREND - ANALYSTS

U.S. retail sales rose sharply in February but many economists said the underlying consumer spending trend remains weak. February retail sales jumped 4.1 pct, more than the 2.5-3.0 pct rise the financial markets had anticipated. But January's sales were revised down to a 7.4 pct drop, from a previously reported 5.8 pct decline. "The trend is toward continued spending but certainly at a much more sluggish pace," said Don Maude of Midland Montagu Capital Markets Inc. Maude averaged out the wide swings in the retail sales data over past four months to show that the pace of consumer spending is slowing. Combining the latest data with a 0.6 pct drop in November and a 4.6 pct gain in December, the average retail sales gain over the four months was 0.2 pct, he said, compared to to a 0.4 pct rise for year-over-year sales through February. "You can see a pattern developing," Maude said. "I wouldn't be surprised to see a fall-off in March, especially since sales probably won't be boosted by auto sales as they were in February." Despite the weak underlying trend, economists were impressed by a robust 1.5 pct gain in total sales excluding autos in February. This compared to a revised 0.4 pct decline in January, previously reported as a 0.1 pct decline. "The increase in non-auto sales was broadbased, with gains in durable goods as well as non-durables," noted Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. "It was a pretty healthy report." He noted that building materials rose 1.8 pct in February after falling 1.7 pct in January. General merchandise store sales gained 1.4 pct after a 1.6 pct rise in January. "There are signs of life in the economy," McCarthy said. "But it's jumping to conclusions to extrapolate this report into the future." A 0.7 pct increase in disposable personal income in January which may be linked to the new tax laws probably helped boost spending in February, he said. "A lot of people may be inadvertently under-withholding taxes from their paychecks," he said. "When people in this country get an increase in disposable income, the inclination is to go out and spend it," he said. Economists said tomorrow's release of U.S. auto sales for the first 10 days of March will be an important indicator of how much this sector will add to first quarter spending. Auto sales accounted for the lion's share of total February sales, rising 14.4 pct. This followed a 27.7 pct drop in January, previously reported as a 22.4 pct fall, due largely to the expiration of the sales tax deduction under new tax laws January 1, the Commerce Department noted. Some economists argued that the because the gain in total sales excluding autos also followed a decline in January, the strength in the February report is less than impressive. "There is strength in the February data, but that's because they were compared to low sales levels in January," said said Beth Reiners of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "We don't see it as a precursor of continued strength." Durable goods sales rose 8.8 pct in February, after falling 17.7 pct in January. February non-durable goods sales gained 1.3 pct, after declining 0.2 pct in January. Gasoline service station sales rose two pct in February, following a 1.9 pct gain in January, but economists said higher oil prices rather than an increased volume of gas sales probably accounted for these gains. Reiners also emphasized that the trend in consumer spending is weakening. Total retail sales on average were 123 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986, she said. In January, they fell to a seasonally adjusted 117.52 bilion dlrs, and in February rose to 122.29 billion dlrs. "On average, it looks like they'll total 120 to 121 mln dlrs in the first quartrer," she said. "We don't look at this as indication that the economy is barrelling along." "The number is not really that problematic for those of us who are constructive on the bond market," agreed Elliot Platt of Donaldsen Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp. Platt does not foresee potential for tighter monetary policy on the basis of the latest retail sales report. "The Fed is on hold now because the data have been so confusing," he said. "Before the 337,000 gain in February non-farm payroll employment, I would have looked for a discount rate cut in March," he said. "But now Fed officials will have to wait for the first quarter real U.S. gross national product data in April to sort things out." Reuter 
SEC REMOVES OBSTACLE TO FOREIGN FUTURES TRADING

The Securities and Exchange Commission removed a key regulatory obstacle to trading futures on designated foreign debt securities on U.S. exchanges. The move would allow the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, to apply to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, for approval of a futures contract on yen bonds. The CBT has said it may apply for approval of the yen bond futures contract, a CFTC spokesman said. The SEC's action, which was approved by a 4-0 vote, specifically removes a regulation against trading futures on designated foreign government debt securities on contract markets that are not located in the country that issued those securities. Futures on the government debt securities of Japan, Canada and Great Britain can already be marketed in the United States under a designated exemption issued by the SEC. But the new move would permit U.S. exchanges to apply to the CFTC for approval of establishing futures contracts on those securities, SEC officials said. The new SEC move would also allow those foreign government debt securities to be marketed in the United States by countries other than those that issued the securities, the officials said. Since the foreign government securities underlying the futures cannot be traded in the United States unless they are registered with the SEC, settlement and delivery of the futures would often take place in the foreign country, the SEC officials said. The SEC is also considering expanding futures trading of additional countries' government securities to be marketed and traded in the United States, the officials said. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a spokeswoman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
S/P DOWNGRADES CANADA'S PROVINCE OF SASKATCHEWAN

Standard and Poor's Corp said it downgraded Canada's Province of Saskatchewan. The action affects the equivalent of 1.68 billion U.S. dlrs of debt. S and P lowered the province's long-term debt to AA-minus from AA. The rating agency said the action reflected a substantial increase in Saskatchewan's budget deficit for fiscal 1987 and prospects for greater tax-supported debt in the medium term. S and P pointed out that the outlook for future revenue growth is constrained by general weakness in the province's commodity-based economy because of low prices. Reuter 
MOBIL <MOB> TO RESTRUCTURE EXPLORATION UNIT

Mobil Oil Corp said it will restructure its Dallas-based Mobil Exploration and Producing Services Inc operations April one, to provide stronger technological support to its U.S. and overseas operations. Mobil said the operation will consist of two new units, Technical Services and Application Technology, along with the existing Drilling and New Exploration Ventures groups. It said R.C. Mills, president and general manager of its Exploration and Producing Southeast Inc, has been named vice president and general manager of the new operation reporting to P.J. Hoenmans, president of its Exploration and Producing division. Reuter 
BADGER <BMI> SEES NO REASON FOR TRADING ACTIVITY

Badger Meter Inc said it was not aware of any reason for the unusual trading activity in its common stock. Badger was trading at 21-5/8, up 1-5/8. The company made the statement in response to an inquiry from the American Stock Exchange regarding the unusual activity in its stock. Reuter 
WILDLIFE UNIT PROPOSES ALASKA REFUGE OIL STUDY

The National Wildlife Federation rejected an Interior Department draft plan to open wilderness lands in Northern Alaska to oil and gas exploration. The federation, the nation's largest conservation group, said further study was needed to assess any possible damage that development might have on the wildlife in the area, the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Jay Hair, the federation's executive vice president, called the Interior's research into the effects of development "so fundamentally flawed that it provides little or no basis on which to make a public policy decision." Hair called the department's proposal a "reflection of a largely political decision," adding "we have no confidence in Interior to represent the broad public interest in this area." Interior wants to open the 1.5 million acre coastal plain to oil and gas exploration, but it said only with tough safeguards to protect the area's caribou and musk-oxen. It said a preliminary survey showed the region could hold billions of barrels of oil and gas, and that its potential as an energy resource would never be known without exploration. Interior said oil on the coastal plain could match the 10 billion barrels found at Prudhoe Bay, just west of the plain. Under existing law, Congress must agree to oil and gas exploration, and if it does not act, the land will remain a wildlife refuge protected from commercial development. Hair said Interior's report failed to stress the probability that finding recoverable oil is only 19 pct. He said Interior's study also failed to weigh oil, gas, fish and wildlife information the State of Alaska had gathered nor had the department consulted the Environmental Protection Agency on the possible effects of exploration. The federation, in letters to Congressmen, proposed that a nine-member commission be set up to study all aspects of the issue and report back to Congress in about two years. Hair said the federation was not opposed to the possible exploration of oil, only that Interior's study was inadquate to make a sound judgement. Congressional observers said that at present there was little sentiment in Congress to open the wildlife area for commercial exploitation dispite increasing concern that the United States is becoming overly dependent on foreign oil. reuter 
ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY TO OPEN ON SCHEDULE

The St Lawrence Seaway and the Welland Canal linking Lakes Erie and Ontario were expected to open as scheduled on March 31 and April 1, respectively, a St Lawrence Seaway official said. The entire Seaway is already free of ice due to the mild Winter and could be open for navigation today, "but there doesn't seem to be enough demand from shipping companies to warrant an early opening," the Canadian official said. Repairs are continuing at a stepped up pace on the Welland Canal and should be completed by the April 1 start-up date, she added. Reuter 
LYNG SAYS NO DECISION ON SOVIET EEP OFFER

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said the Reagan administration had not decided on offering the Soviet Union subsidized wheat but that such an offer had not been ruled out. In an interview with Reuters, Lyng also said that he had no knowledge of any upcoming discussion of the matter within the cabinet. Asked if the administration had ruled out offering to subsidize wheat exports to the Soviet Union under the department's export enhancement program, Lyng said, "No. We haven't made a decision on it, haven't even talked about it, haven't even looked at it." Reminded that there have been reports that Moscow would buy U.S. wheat if competitively priced, Lyng responded, "If they (the Soviets) would offer to buy some wheat, would we accept it? It would depend on what price they offered." Lyng added that he did not think the price of U.S. wheat was far off the world price. Asked about persistent speculation that the administration would offer Moscow a wheat subsidy, Lyng said, "Some people think they're doing it to see if they can get a little spurt in the market." Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz last week asked the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to investigate reports that wheat prices were being manipulated by reports that a U.S. wheat subsidy offer was imminent. Reuter 
ENVIROPACT <VIRO> IN NASDAQ NATIONAL EXPANSION

Enviropact Inc said its stock has been included for listing in the National Association of Securities Dealers' NASDAQ National Market System effective March 17. Reuter 
SOLV-EX <SOLV> SHELL CANADA <SHC> PACT COMPLETE

Solv-Ex Corp said it successfully completed its oil sands pilot testing program under its agreement with Shell Canada Limited <SHC> and received a 250,000 U.S. dlr bonus payment. It also said that Shell Canada exercised its option to take over Solv-Ex's 25 pct working interest in the construction of the oil facility, relieving it of its obligation to raise about 62.5 mln Canadian dlrs for plant construction. It said 30 pct of that loan was guaranteed by the Government of Alberta. In exchange for Shell's participation, Solv-Ex said Shell is obligated to pay it an up-front royalty and a running royalty based on the operating profits of the oil sands facility. It said the Shell Canada 7,500 barrel per day oil sands project will be built on Shell's oil sand lease about 40 miles north of Fort McMurray in the Athabasca region of northern Alberta. Solv-Ex said the project will cost about 260 mln Canadian dlrs. It said that following a final feasibility study the plant should open in the early 1990s when oil prices are expected to exceed 20 U.S. dlrs per barrel. Reuter 
U.S.-SOVIET GRAIN ACCORD QUESTIONED BY LYNG

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said he was not sure a long-term U.S.-Soviet grain agreement would be worth extending when it expires next year. "It hasn't been worth much in the last two years....They haven't lived up to the agreement as I see it," Lyng said in an interview with Reuters. "It would be my thought that it's not worth any effort to work out an agreement with someone who wants the agreement to be a one-sided thing," he said. However, Lyng said he did not want to make a "definitive commitment one way or another at this point." Under the accord covering 1983-88, the Soviets agreed to buy at least nine mln tonnes of U.S. grain, including four mln tonnes each of corn and wheat. Moscow bought 6.8 mln tonnes of corn and 153,000 tonnes of wheat during the third agreement year, which ended last September, and this year has bought one mln tonnes of corn. Lyng said he had no knowledge of how much U.S. grain Moscow would buy this year. "I've seen people making comments on that and I don't know how they know, unless they talk to the Soviets," he said. "I have no knowledge, and I really don't think anyone other than the Soviets have any knowledge." Lyng said he thought the Soviets bought U.S. corn last month because "they needed it and because the price was right." "Our corn has been pretty reasonably priced. And I think they've always found that our corn was good," he said. Reuter 
POWERINE REFINERY TO RESUME OPERATIONS

<Powerine Oil Co> said its refinery here will resume operation today, with initial crude oil runs of 20,000 barrels per day. Powerine, a privately-held company, said it expects the refinery to become fully operational by May, with crude oil throughput at 35,000 bpd. Initial oil products deliveries are scheduled for Monday, Powerine said. The refinery had been closed due to a change of ownership, the company said. Reuter 
U.S. SOYBEAN MARKETING LOAN NOT NEEDED - LYNG

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said a marketing loan for soybeans would serve no present purpose because the U.S. price is not above the world price. Asked in an interview if it was time to consider a marketing loan for soybeans, Lyng said, "I don't think so. I don't think the world price is lower than our price anyway." However, the USDA secretary said that if current conditions of surplus production persisted, it might be appropriate to consider a marketing loan. "I suppose that under that condition there is a danger our exports will continue to drop and that the government will continue to accumulate large stocks of soybeans," he said. "It might be (worth contemplating a marketing loan), if there were a world market that was lower than our market." Reuter 
U.S. ISSUES VERIFICATION PROPOSALS AT ARMS TALKS

The United States made its proposals for verifying adherence to a prospective treaty on medium range nuclear weapons and in a highly unusual move made public the outlines of its recommendations. State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters the proposals were made to the Soviet Union at Geneva arms control talks today. The proposals included on-site inspection that could result in inspectors from the two superpowers being stationed permanently on the territory of the other. Reuter 
NYFE SEAT SOLD FOR 200 DLRS

The New York Stock Exchange said a seat on the New York Futures Exchange sold for 200 dlrs, which is unchanged from the previous sale, made yesterday. The NYSE said the current bid is 200 dlrs and the current offer is 300 dlrs. Reuter 
IMF, DEVELOPMENT BANKS, TO ASSIST ECUADOR

It could be months before major assistance is provided for Earthquake-stricken Ecuador, although the International Monetary Fund and the development banks have already taken the first steps, monetary sources and U.S. officials said. They said the IMF had informed the Ecuadorean government that it was prepared, under its emergency system, to provide about 50 mln dlrs, or about 25 per cent of the country's quota in the agency, but it is up to Ecuador to request the money. At the same time, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank have dispatched missions to the region hit by last Thursday's quake to determine what the country's needs are and how they can speed up disbursement of funds from programs already approved. The World Bank estimates that of the over one billion dlrs it has approved for Ecuador in recent years, some 277 mln dlrs has yet to be disbursed and a portion of this could, potentially, be made available. The bank said that the programs it has approved are for rural development, agriculture, water and sewerage, electrical power and others. If the assistance that is needed can be fit into these general categories, the funds could be then provided for from expedited disbursements Reuter 
BALDRIGE WILL NOT OBJECT TO COMPUTERS FOR IRAN

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said he would not object to the sale of computers to Iran because the technology was that of U.S.-designed personal computers developed ten years ago. "We have no reason not to ship it," Baldrige told reporters after a Senate Banking Committee hearing on export controls. Baldrige said the Defense Department's objection that the computers would be used in newspaper production was not a reason to bar the granting of an export license. "This is not a reason for denying it on foreign policy grounds," he said. Reuter 
AMERICAN CYANAMID TO SET UP PLANT IN DUNKIRK

<American Cyanamid Corp> is to set up a herbicide production plant in the recently-created Dunkirk enterprise zone, an official for the Dunkirk port authority said. He told Reuters the announcement was made by Industry Minister Alain Madelin during a visit to the zone today. The plans involve investment of around 70 mln francs. The enterprise zones, created on the sites of naval shipyards closed down last year and which also include zones at La Ciotat and La Seyne, provide for exemption from corporate taxes for 10 years and other incentives. Reuter 
FRENCH FARMERS SAY U.S. SUBSIDISES MORE THAN EC

The United States subsidises its agricultural industry much more than the European Community, according to an internal USDA report, Marcel Cazale, President of the French Maize Producers' Association (AGPM), said. He told reporters that according to what he described as a "confidential" report prepared by the USDA which he had seen, the US took the leading place regarding agricultural subsidies, ahead of the EC. Cazale said according to the report, Argentina and Australia were the only countries not to subsidise their agriculture at all, or only by a small amount. Cazale said in Argentina subsidies were granted for exports, but for a very small amount, while in Australia subsidies were also only for exports, amounting to 15 to 30 pct. But Cazale said Australian agriculture received disguised aid to the extent that fuel and fertilisers benefited from tax reductions, and transport, electricity and telephones in the sector had special tariffs. He did not elaborate. Reuter 
SUN <SUN> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS

Sun Co said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings Sun's posted price for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs/bbl. Sun Co last changed its crude postings on March 4. Reuter 
U.S. SEISMIC CREW COUNT DROPS 6 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The number of seismic crews searching for oil and gas in the United States dropped by nine to a total of 151 crews, a decrease of six pct from January, the Society of Exploration Geophysicists said. The February total represented a 49 pct decrease from February 1986. Worldwide, the association's monthly survey showed that seismic exploration for oil and gas increased to 395 in February, up three from the month before. Africa added three seismic crews, the Middle East increased by two and the Far East added one while reductions were reported in Central and South America, Europe and the United States. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 120,000 TONNES WHEAT  PURCHASED FROM FOREIGN SELLERS FOR 1987/88



PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS 50 CTS

Phillips Petroleum said it raised the contract price it will for all grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings Phillip's posted price for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. Phillips last changed its crude oil postings on March 4. The price increase follows similar moves by USX's <X> subsidiary, Marathon oil, and Sun Co <SUN> earlier today. Reuter 
USDA SAYS WHEAT PURCHASED FROM FOREIGN SELLERS

The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported purchases from foreign sellers of 120,000 tonnes of wheat for delivery to unknown destinations. The wheat, consisting of 60,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 60,000 tones of soft red winter, is for delivery during the 1987/88 season, which begins June 1. A purchase from a foreign seller is a transaction in which a U.S. exporter contracts to buy U.S.-produced commodities from a foreign firm, the department said. Reuter 
 DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DIA> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS

Diamond Shamrock said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings the company's posted price for the benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 17.50 dlrs/bbl. Diamond Shamrock last changed its postings on March 4. Reuter 
VOLCKER SEES SEVERE PROBLEMS IN SOME SECTORS OF THE U.S. ECONOMY



GLICKMAN PUSHES HARD FOR 0/92 FARM PLAN

Implementation of a one-year 0/92 pilot program for wheat and feedgrains was strongly promoted today by the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee as a way to cut farm costs and simultaneously give farmers another option when making their planting decisions. "We have a budget driven farm policy. It may be a shame, but we are locked into this," said Dan Glickman, (D-Kans.), chairman of the subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feed grains. "We need to look at ways to cut costs and not hurt the farmer. A 0/92 plan, if properly done, could do both." Glickman announced this week plans to introduce a 0/92 bill for 1987 and 1988 wheat and feedgrains. An aide to Glickman said that it will probably be introduced next week. Glickman said a 0/92 program, which allows a farmer to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of his deficiency payment, would not be a major revision of the 1985 farm bill -- only an extension of the 50/92 option already provided under the current bill. It is premature to make any major changes in the farm bill, he said, but if agriculture has to make further cuts to meet budget goals, a voluntary 0/92 plan would be better than sharply cutting target prices, as USDA has proposed. A 0/92 plan, however, would not be decoupling, but simply a different type of acreage diversion program, Glickman said. Decoupling -- delinking planting decisions from government payments -- is too much of a policy change to approve at this point, he said. "I don't think there is any interest in pursuing a decoupling bill this year. Period. Unequivocal," Glickman said at the hearing. Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.), cosponsor of the Boren/Boschwitz decoupling plan, said he supports a short term 0/92 program as a move to a more permament decoupling plan. Boschwitz plans to introduce a 0/92 plan in the senate. His plan would guarantee a certain deficiency payment to participating farmers, require that idled acreage be put to conservation use only, prohibit haying and grazing on extra idled acreage, limit participation to a certain number of acres in a county and provide tenant protection provisions. "I know we cannot obtain complete decoupling in 1987, but we can at least move in that direction," Boschwitz said. Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., testified in favor of decoupling. Decoupling would end the current bias in U.S. farm policy towards overproduction and reduce farmers' dependency on the government, he said. A 0/92 plan does not go far enough in decoupling, Johnson said, and would still encourage farmers to plant. Officials from the National Corn Growers Association and the National Cattlemen's Association said their groups oppose any 0/92 or decoupling plan due to concerns about reopening the farm bill and creating more confusion among farmers. But when asked if his association were forced to choose between a ten pct cut in target prices or a 0/92 program, Larry Johnson of the Corn Growers said they would agree to 0/92 rather than take sharp cuts in target levels. Reuter 
MILLER SAYS NO U.S. TAX HIKES TO CUT DEFICIT

Director of the Office of Management and Budget James Miller said the Reagan administration had no intention of raising taxes in order to reduce the federal budget deficit. "There will be no tax increases," he said three times before a Management Briefing luncheon of Southern Methodist University's Edwin L. Cox School of Business. The budget deficit, which is currently slated at 173 billion dlrs for fiscal 1988, is supposed to be reduced to 108 billion dlrs under the provisions of the Gramm-Rudman Act, which calls for a balanced budget by fiscal 1991. Miller said he believes the budget deficit can be reduced but added, "the surest way to put us in a pickle" would be to raise or ease the Gramm-Rudman goal. "If we were to raise taxes so soon after tax reform, it would create enormous uncertainty on the financial markets," he said, adding that giving up on the will to reduce the deficit would also create uncertainty. Miller reiterated the president's budget proposal that the deficit could be reduced by a total of 42 billion dlrs through increased revenues and spending cuts. An additional 23 billion dlrs from economic growth is expected to result in the budget deficit being reduced to the 108 billion dlr target. Miller said it was possible the Administration might support an oil import fee, but added that the President was concerned that such a move might have more adverse results than benefits. He also said the Administration was seeking to spin off Amtrak, which costs the government about 500 mln dlrs a year, but added that he did not expect it to be accomplished this year. Reuter 
OCCIDENTAL UNIT <OXY> LIFTS LOCKOUT

Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska processing plant and plans to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial Workers Union spokesman Allen Zack said by phone from his Washington, D.C. headquarters. Iowa Beef, a susbsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, mailed a letter to members of UFCWU Local 222 informing them a lockout imposed by the company on December 14 would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beef's "revised, last and best final offer," according to Zack. The letter was signed by four managers at the Dakota City plant. Iowa Beef closed the proessing plant indefinitely in mid-December because, it said, it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations. About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired December 13. Reuter 
PRESIDENT NAMED FOR DISNEY <DIS> EUROPEAN PARK

Walt Disney Co <DIS> said it named Robert J. Fitzpatrick, president of Euro Disneyland. Disney said the appointment becomes effective when it and the French government sign the definitive agreement for the new outdoor entertainment complex near Paris. It said the park will be built on nearly 5,000 acres in Marne-la-Vallee, 20 miles east of Paris. It said it will include the Magic Kingdom theme park, outdoor recreation, shops and hotels. It said it will seek qualified investors in France and elsewhere to form the Europ Disneyland owner company, in which it will also be an equity partner. Disney also said it will receive management fees for operating the park in addition to license and royalty income. It said Fitzpatrick is president of California Institute of the Arts and director of the Los Angeles Festival. Reuter 
WRIGHT SAYS A GAS TAX AN OPTION TO CUT DEFICIT

House Speaker Jim Wright said a gasoline tax is one option to finding a way to reduce the deficit, but told reporters in response to a question he will not try to dictate a solution to the debt problem. Wright has made suggestions for raising taxes about 20 billion dlrs as part of a budget plan to reduce the deficit. Tax proposals are being given consideration by members of the House Budget Committee, but the details of any tax increase would be made by the tax writing House ways and Means Committee. Reuter 
KEY U.S. HOUSE TRADE SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES BILL TO TOUGHEN U.S. TRADE LAWS



NO CLEAR EVIDENCE TRADE GAP REVERSED - VOLCKER

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said current data does not give a clear sign that the deterioration in the U.S. trade balance has yet been reversed. "The data we have in hand do not provide clearcut evidence that the deterioration in the trade balance has yet been reversed," Volcker said in remarks prepared for delivery to a luncheon for community leaders here. However, Volcker said there are encouraging signs, particularly the rising volume of exports over the past year, achieved despite relatively slow growth abroad. Volcker warned it is not sustainable from an economic perspective to pile up foreign debt while failing to make the investment needed to generate growth and earn the money to service the debt. He said the process of restoring external balance to the U.S. economy requires dealing with the budget deficit. He said needed economic adjustment will require a relative shift of financial and real resources into internationally competitive industry. "More of our growth will need to be reflected in net exports and business investment and less in consumption," Volcker said. Reuter 
IOWA BEEF LIFTS LOCKOUT AT DAKOTA CITY

Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska, processing plant and plans to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) Union spokesman Allen Zack said. Iowa Beef mailed a letter to members of UFCW Local 222 informing them a lockout imposed by the company December 14 would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beef's "revised, last and best final offer," Zack said. Iowa Beef had closed the plant indefinitely in mid-December because it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations. About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired December 13. Reuter 
N.Y. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 718 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 4 WEEK, FED SAYS



NEW YORK BANK DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS NIL IN MARCH 11 WEEK



NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 718 MLN DLRS

Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 718 mln dlrs to 64.87 billion in the week ended March 4, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. Including acceptances, loans fell 581 mln dlrs to 65.63 billion. Commercial paper outstanding nationally dropped 13 mln dlrs to 336.02 billion. National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. Reuter 
CARGILL OFFICIAL DEFENDS CERTIFICATE PROGRAMS

The use of generic in-kind commodity certificates has helped ease storage problems and is a necessary part of export promotion programs, a senior executive for the world's largest grain company said. Testifying before the House Agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains, Robbin Johnson, vice president of Cargill, Inc., disputed claims that U.S. grain companies have made huge profits from certificate trading. "The certs program is not in any way a windfall to the trade," he said. Johnson said that Cargill has been dealing with a two pct spread in certificate transactions, and that this is within the normal grain marketing levels. Johnson recognized current concern over the cost of certificates as compared to cash, but said that critics need to look more closely at the savings caused by certs, noting for example that widespread use of certs in the PIK and Roll marketing technique last summer helped ease storage costs. Certificates are also an important part of any export promotion program, he said. "The more you look at ways to expand export markets, the more you have to look at ways to expand certs to put more grain into the market to meet demand," he said. Subcommittee chairman Dan Glickman (D-Kans.) said his committee would be looking at the certificate program later this year and studying the General Accounting Office report on certificate costs. Reuter 
HOUSE SPEAKER BACKS OIL IMPORT FORECAST PLAN

House Speaker Jim Wright endorsed a proposal to require the president to take action to reduce oil imports if they threaten to top 50 pct of U.S. consumption. Wright told reporters the plan by Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, a fellow Texas Democrat, was positive and useful. Oil imports peaked in 1977 at 47 pct, were short of 36 pct last year and this year are up over 40 pct, Bentsen said. The Bentsen proposal, supported by 24 other Senators, would would require the president to issue annual three-year oil import forecasts. In any year they threatened to top 50 pct, he would be ordered to propose quotas or other solution. Reuter 
KENYAN LEADER APPEALS FOR U.S. INVESTMENT

President Reagan today had talks with Kenyan President Daniel Arap Moi, who afterwards appealed for more U.S. investment in Kenya and a deeper American commitment to ending apartheid in South Africa. A senior administration official said that during the talks Reagan stressed to Moi the importance of Kenya's maintaining its high standards on human rights. The official said South Africa had not been a contentious issue in the talks and that the two leaders had found a lot of common ground on the issue. The administration has practiced a policy of "constructive engagement" with South Africa and accepted trade sanctions only after they had been imposed by Congress. Reuter 
U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 148 MLN DLRS A DAY IN MARCH 11 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BANK NET FREE RESERVES 660 MLN DLRS IN TWO WEEKS TO MARCH 11, FED SAYS



U.S. M1 FALLS 600 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 2 WEEK, FEB M2 DOWN 1.6 BILLION, M3 UP 3.0 BILLION



FCOJ MOVEMENT 3,915,370 GALLONS LAST WEEK

Florida Citrus Processors Association said frozen concentrate orange juice movement into trade channels in the week ended March 7 totalled 3,915,370 gallons versus 3,956,126 gallons in the week ended February 28 and 4,284,693 gallons in the corresponding year-ago period. There were 3,814,891 gallons of foreign imports last week versus 133,505 gallons the week before. Domestic imports last week were 306,031. Retail movement was 1,652,916 versus 2,015,953 a year ago. Bulk movement was 1,934,494 against 1,954,103 a year earlier. Current season cumulative movement was 60,480,375 gallons versus 59,654,702 last year. Cumulative net pack for the season was 80,359,978 versus 74,071,755 a year ago. Inventory was 83,422,435 versus 81,963,040 a year ago. Reuter 
PACO PHARMACEUTICAL <PPS> OPENS ON NYSE

Paco Pharmaceutical Services Inc said its common stock began trading today on the New York Stock Exchange. The company's stock opened at 26-3/4 and closed at 26-1/8 on 21,900 shares traded. Paco said NASDAQ will continue to carry its common stock warrants due to expire Decmber 31 under the symbol <PPSIW> and its convertible debentures issued February six under the symbol <PPSIG>. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS 600 MLN DLRS

U.S. M-1 money supply fell 600 mln dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.0 billion dlrs in the March 2 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 738.6 billion dlrs from 738.5 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 737.1 billion dlrs from 736.8 billion. Commenting on February growth of the broader monetary aggregates, the Fed said that M-2 fell 1.6 billion dlrs, while M-3 rose three billion. Economists polled by Reuters had projected a 900 mln dlr fall in M-1, a 1.8 billion dlr drop in M-2 and no change in M-3. Reuter 
JUDGE DISMISSES NORTH'S LAWSUIT CHALLENGING IRAN

A U.S. judge today dismissed a lawsuit by fired White House aide Lt. Col. Oliver North seeking to halt a special prosecutor's investigation into the Iran arms scandal. In a 21-page ruling, U.S. District Court Judge Barrington Parker threw out North's suit challenging the constitutionality of the law empowering special prosecutor Walsh to investigate secret arms sales to Iran and the diversion of profits to "contra" rebels in Nicaragua. "The nation demands an expeditious and complete disclosure of our government's involvement in the Iran-contra affair," Parker ruled. Reuter 
VOLCKER SEES PROBLEMS REMAINING IN SOME SECTORS

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said severe problems remain in some sectors of the U.S. economy despite progress in others. "Severe problems in some sectors of the economy are all too obvious," he said in remarks prepared for delivery to a luncheon of business leaders here. He said oil exploration and development, as well as agricultural prices, have been heavily affected by worldwide surpluses. Commercial construction, he said, is suffering from earlier over-building in many areas. More broadly, he said, there are distortions and imbalances in the U.S. economy that cut across many sectors. "Unless dealt with effectively and forcibly, they will undermine all that has been achieved," Volcker warned. He said one problem is that economic activity over the past two years has been supported largely by consumption. He said that rising consumption was achieved at the expense of reduced personal savings. At the same time, he said, the huge Federal budget deficit is absorbing a disproportionate amount of the savings generated in the U.S. Volcker said the adverse consequences of the combination of low savings rates and high Federal budget deficits have been escaped by drawing on capital from abroad. He noted that the net flow of foreign capital into the U.S. in 1986 exceeded all the savings by U.S. households. "That is a graphic demonstration of the extent to which our financial markets are hostage to possible changes in external attitudes and circumstances," Volcker said. Reuter 
U.S. MARKET LOAN NOT THAT ATTRACTIVE-BOSCHWITZ

A marketing loan for U.S. wheat, feedgrains and soybeans would do nothing to help the surplus production situation and would be extremely costly, Sen. Rudy Boschwitz (R-Minn.) said. "I think I would not support a marketing loan now," he told the House agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. Boschwitz was one of the original supporters of a marketing loan for cotton and rice, but has since focused support on decoupling legislation, the Boren/Boschwitiz bill. A market loan for grains and soybeans would encourage more production, especially in high-yielding areas, would be much more expensive than the current cotton and rice marketing loans and not increase exports significantly, he said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL

The House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee unanimously approved a toned-down version of legislation designed to toughen U.S. trade laws and wedge open foreign markets to more U.S. goods. The measure now goes to the full House Ways and Means Committee next week, but major changes are not expected, congressional sources said. "This product could very well be toughening our trade policy and doing it in a manner that opens markets without this frightening word 'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat said. The trade subcommittee backed away from mandating specific retaliation against foreign countries for unfair foreign trade practices as the House had approved in a trade bill last year. But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committee debate on a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt to mandate a reduction in trade surpluses with the U.S. by countries such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the exact form of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the House approved his idea to force an annual ten pct trade surplus cut by those countries. The trade bill will be wrapped in with legislation from other committees dealing with relaxation of export controls, incentives for research, expanded worker training and education and other efforts to increase U.S. competitiveness. The comprehensive trade bill is to be considered by the full House in late April and then will be considered by Senate committees. It requires President Reagan to retaliate against foreign unfair trade practices but do not mandate quotas or tariffs and allow an exemption if U.S. economic security would be harmed by U.S. actions against other countries. The bill would make it easier for U.S. industries to win relief from surges of imports of competitive products. It extends until January 1993, the administration's authority to negotiate trade agreements as part of the new round of multilateral talks under the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade. And, it includes provisions to tighten trade rules on copyrights, patents and telecommunications goods. Reuter 
INFLATION STILL A CONCERN, VOLCKER SAYS

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said both the Fed and the financial markets remain concerned about the possibility of renewed inflation. "A possibility of renewed inflation remains of concern, both in the markets and within the Federal Reserve," he said in remarks prepared for delivery to a group of business leaders here. He said one potential channel for renewed inflationary pressures would be an excessive fall of the dollar in the exchange markets, which would push import prices up sharply. He said participants in financial markets and business remain skeptical of prospects for lasting price stability. "Should the skepticism about our ability to resist inflation be reinforced by bad policy, the consequences for interest rates, for exchange rates, and for the economy generally would clearly be undesirable...recognition of that danger neccesarily must weigh heavily in the formation of monetary policy," the Fed chairman said. Volcker said attempts to drive the dollar much lower would undermine the hard won gains against inflation and would risk dissipating the flow of foreign capital. Reuter 
LIVE CATTLE RALLY AS LOCKOUT AT MEAT PLANT ENDS

Live cattle futures posted a robust rally today after a major beef packing company said it would end a lockout at its slaughtering plant in Dakota City, Neb. April delivery cattle on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange closed at 64.45 cents a pound, up 0.83 cent, as the market expected demand for live animals to increase as the plant restarts operations. Iowa Beef Processors, a division of Occidental Petroleum, said it planned to reopen the plant, one of the largest in the nation, on March 16. The plant has been closed since Dec. 14, the day after a contract between IBP and Local 222 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union expired. The plant employs 2,800 workers and can slaughter several thousand animals a day, a company spokesman said. The company said it locked out union workers because they threatened to disrupt operations. It was unclear whether union meatpackers would return to work. They rejected the company's latest contract offer March 5. Traders said cattle prices advanced at midsession as rumors circulated that the lockout was ending, and gains were further fueled by a noticeable increase in demand for live animals on cash markets in Nebraska and the Texas Panhandle. The rally in cattle also boosted values of live hogs and frozen pork bellies, which also were supported by indications that producers were expanding their hog herds at a slower rate than previously expected. Petroleum futures posted a modest rally on the New York Mercantile Exchange. But a report that the Soviet Union planned to reduce the price of its crude oil exports may pressure the market Friday, said Nauman Barakat, petroleum analyst in New York with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. Buying by companies that deal in petroleum helped prices recover from early weakness, traders said. Gold futures rallied, partly in response to strength in the silver market, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Silver prices rallied after a U.S. brokerage house recommended its customers buy the metal, traders said. Coffee futures drifted lower in response to a report that Colombia lowered the price of its exports, traders said. Sugar prices closed slightly higher on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange despite a large export sale by the European Commission on Wednesday. Soybeans were higher, wheat lower and corn mixed on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans were boosted by expectations that the Agriculture Department would report a healthy signup for the Conservation Reserve Program, which pays farmers to leave highly erodible land idle instead of planting a crop, traders said. Concern that a strike by Brazilian seamen might interrupt exports of soybeans from Brazil, where the harvest is just beginning, also underpinned prices, they said. Wheat prices were pressured by selling in response to trends on price charts, they said. Reuter 
PERMIAN BASIN <PBT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL

Permian Basin Royalty Trust said that as of December 31, 1986, its estimated proved reserves totaled 18.5 mln barrels of oil and 52.9 mln MCF, or thousand cubic feet, of gas. This compares with yearend 1985 proved reserves estimates of 26.4 mln barrels of oil and 78.6 mln MCF of gas, Permian said. Permian said December 1986 future net revenues from proved reserves were 335.6 mln dlrs, down from 814.2 mln dlrs in 1985. Permian said the present value of estimated future net revenues discounted at 10 pct is 165.3 mln dlrs, compared with 374.3 mln dlrs. It said the downward revisions in both proved reserves and estimated future net revenues resulted from decreased prices for oil and gas. Reuter 
SEC ASKS NYSE TO TIGHTEN TRIPLE WITCHING PROCESS

The Securities and Exchange Commission asked the New York Stock Exchange to tighten an experimental procedure used in the past six months to dampen volatility linked to the so-called "triple-witching hour." The Big Board has been collecting and publicizing information on large imbalances of "market-on-close" (MOC) orders placed on 50 major stocks one-half-hour before closing on so-called expiration Fridays in September and December. Expiration Fridays, or triple witching hours, occur every three months when stock options, stock index options and futures on index options expire simultaneously. As aribrageurs liquidated their futures and options on previous expiration Fridays, they sold huge amounts of stock which they had used to offset their positions. The huge sell orders, which usually entered the market in the final frantic minutes on expiration Fridays triggered wild price swings in the 50 stocks which serve as the basis for the options and futures. The gyrations prompted the SEC last September to request that the Big Board ask its members submit all MOCs by 1530 hrs on expiration Fridays, which would then be made public, giving the market a half-hour to settle order imbalances. But in a March 12 letter to NYSE President Robert Birnbaum, SEC Director of Market Regulation cited problems in the experimental procedure during the Dec 19 expiration Friday. A large number of MOC buy orders were not placed until after 1530 EST on Dec 19, which helped send the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 21 points in the final minutes of the day to a 14.20-point gain on the day, Ketchum said. Citing the SEC's concern about such trading, Ketchum asked the exchange to tighten its procedure by not accepting any pre-existing MOC orders after 1530 if they could have been placed earlier. The new restriction, which SEC officials said merely clarifies the terms of the existing experimental procedure, would bar the liquidation of stocks through MOC orders for arbitrage purposes after 1530 hrs, even if they offset other reported order imbalances in those stocks. The only MOC orders the SEC will allow to be placed after 1530 EST on March 20, the next expiration Friday, are those that are received by Big Board member firms after 1530 EST and which help reduce existing order imbalances, Ketchum said. If there are no published imbalances in a particular stock, no MOC orders will be accepted in that stock, he said. "If dissemination of MOC orders is to provide an accurate indication of true order imbalances, then all existing MOC orders must be submitted by 3:30 p.m. and only those new MOC orders responding to reported imbalances can be permitted," Ketchum said. The letter did not say how the SEC or the NYSE would determine the difference between pre-existing MOC orders that would be barred, and new MOC orders that would be allowed to reduce imbalances. But an SEC official said the agency hopes the NYSE and its members would adhere to the rules "in a spirit of cooperation." REUTER... 
BRAZIL NEEDS MORE EXTERNAL FINANCING - VOLCKER

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that Brazil will need more external financing to work its way out of its current debt crisis than earlier anticipated. "External financing will have to be found in larger amounts than anticipated a few months ago," he said in remarks prepared for a business leader luncheon. Volcker said that financing, however, must take place along with policies that come to grips with Brazil's internal difficulties. Volcker said Brazil has a lot more negotiating to do with international institutions and its bank creditors but added that a solution to its financial problems can be found. "The predicate for these negotiations has to be effective policy at home (in Brazil)," Volcker told reporters. "Brazil, it seems to me, has a strong self interest in restoring a more normal situation (on interest payments) so that it can continue to participate freely in trade with the rest of the world - and it has so indicated," Volcker said in his prepared remarks. Brazil suspended interest payments on its debt last month. Reuter 
UNOCAL <UCL> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS

Unocal Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for most grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase brings Unocal's posted price for the U.S. benchmark grade West Texas Intermediate to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. It also brought the price for West Texas Sour to 17.50 dlrs a bbl. Light Louisiana Sweet was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs/bbl. Unocal last changed its crude postings on March four, and brings it price in line with other major companies, which have been raising prices steadily in recent weeks. The increase also represents the latest in a series of increases that began with USX Corp's <X> Marathon Petroleum Corp's notification yesterday evening that, effective today, it raised its crude postings 50 cts a barrel, bringing its contract price for WTI to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. Earlier today, Sun Co <SUN>, Phillips Petroleum <P> and Diamond Shamrock <DIA> also said they raised their crude postings 50 cts a barrel, bringing their WTI contract price to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. Contract prices have risen in response to higher spot market prices, oil traders said. Reuter 
MEATPACKERS RESPOND TO OCCIDENTAL<OXY> OFFER

Local 222 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union said it is calling a membership meeting, possibly Sunday, to discuss its response to a decision by Iowa Beef Processors Inc to lift a lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska plant and resume operations. The UFCWU will consider all options available to it including a strike or returning to work under IBP's last labor contract proposal, a spokeswoman for Local 222 said by phone. About 2,800 UFCWU members have been locked out at the Dakota City plant since December 14. IBP is a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp. Reuter 
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS

Southland Corp's Citgo Petroleum Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The increase bring's Citgo's posted price for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 17.50 dlrs a barrel. The Light Louisiana Sweet South Onshore grade was also raised 50 cts to 17.85 dlrs a barrel, and Light Louisiana Sweet North was increased to 17.75 dlrs a barrel. Citgo last changed its postings on March four. Reuter 
VOLCKER SEES BENEFIT IN FDIC/FSLIC MERGER

Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker said a combination of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp, FDIC, and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp, FSLIC, could be contemplated in the longer term but is not an answer to the thrift industry's immediate problems. "I don't think it's an answer to 1977 or 1988," Volcker said at a press conference. But a merger of the two deposit-insurance agencies could be an option as part of a general structural reform of the U.S. banking system. The aim of a merger would not be for commercial banks to subsidize ailing savings and loan associations but to improve official oversight of depository institutions, Volcker said. "The attractive element is that you get almost by definition a consistency of supervision and regulation that you don't have now," he explained. Reuter 
SAN JUAN BASIN <SJT> PROVEN RESERVES FALL

The San Juan Basin Royalty Trust said proved reserves as of December 31 were estimated at 283.1 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,087,000 barrels of oil. In the year-ago period, it said proved reserves were estimated at 346.4 thousand cubic feet of gas and 1,974,000 barrels of oil. It said the present value of future net revenues discounted 10 pct was 156.2 mln dlrs compared with 446.8 mln dlrs in the year-ago period. It also said that about 60 net infill wells are not economical to drill at December 31 prices. Reuter 
CBOE CREATES NEW CLASS OF S AND P 500 OPTIONS

In order to accomodate the shift in the settlement procedure for options on the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index that the exchange announced last month, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) said it has created a new class of options for the S and P contract <SPX>. The CBOE's new contract was needed to coincide with changes in the settlement procedure that the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) made on its S and P 500 futures and options contract which will be implemented with the expiration of the June contract. Settlement of the CBOE's new option contract will be based on the opening price of the S and P 500 index on expiraton day, while settlement of the current contract is based on the closing price of the index. "CBOE doesn't think that opening settlement is the solution to the expiration effect, but we cannot exposure investors in our market to unanticipated risks arising from different settlement times in options and futures," CBOE chairman Alger Chapman said in a release. "We're taking this step to give investors a choice of settlement times that meet their hedging needs," Chapman said. The new contract was necessary because the Options Clearing Corp (OCC) did not allow its member exchanges to modify terms of any of its outstanding contracts, the CBOE said. The new contract will satisfy the needs of customers who require an options contract based on opening prices of the index, the CBOE said. The opening settlement contract will trade parallel to the closing settlement contract as long as the CME maintains its opening settlement procedure for the S and P 500 futures contract, a CBOE spokesperson said. However, she noted that customer preference for one type of settlement procedure will eventually determine which contract will prevail. The opening settlement contract will trade on a March, June, September, December quarterly expiration cycle and will be listed as soon as the OCC revises its contract prospectus, possible in April, the exchange said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES TRADE BILL

The U.S. House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee unanimously approved a toned-down version of legislation designed to toughen U.S. trade laws and wedge open foreign markets to more U.S. goods. The measure now goes to the full House Ways and Means Committee next week, but major changes are not expected, congressional sources said. "This product could very well be toughening our trade policy and doing it in a manner that opens markets without this frightening word 'protectionism'," Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat said. The trade subcommittee backed away from mandating specific retaliation against foreign countries for unfair foreign trade practices as the House had approved in a trade bill last year. But it held over for the full Ways and Means Committee debate on a controversial plan by Rep. Richard Gephardt to mandate a reduction in trade surpluses with the U.S. by countries such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, has not decided the exact form of his amendment, an aide said. Last year the House approved his idea to force an annual 10 pct trade surplus cut by those countries. Reuter 
VOLCKER SAYS SENATE BILL WOULD LIMIT FED

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said a bill passed this week by the Senate banking committee is too restrictive regarding the Federal Reserve. "I don't think our hands should be tied so much as in that bill," he said. The bill would set a one-year moratorium on approval of certain powers that banks have already applied to the Federal Reserve for -- selling insurance, securities and real estate. Volcker added, however, that comprehensive new legislation dealing with such issues is needed. Reuter 
NO GRAIN TO THE USSR IN LATEST WEEK -- USDA

There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 12, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department's latest Export Sales report. The USSR has purchased 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement. Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. Shipments to the USSR in the second year of the agreeement amounted to 2,887,200 tonnes of wheat and 15,750,100 tonnes of corn. Reuter 
INDIA GETS 140 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

The World Bank said it has approved a 140 mln dlr loan for India to help lessen that country's dependence on imported oil and spur development of its own petroleum resources. The bank said the loan will be used to boost production by injecting gas in the partially depleted Assam oil fields and to assist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10 exploratory wells. The bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan will be Oil India Ltd (OIL), which is the smaller of two public Indian petroleum exploration and production companies. Reuter 
FED DATA INDICATE NO POLICY CHANGE LIKELY

U.S. bank reserve, monetary and discount window borrowings data released by the Federal Reserve today clearly indicate that policy is "on hold" and may not be changed for weeks or even months, economists said. "The Fed is keeping policy at dead center and it is not about to change policy unless something fairly dramatic occurs on the economy," said John Williams of Bankers Trust Co. "These numbers contain no hint that a policy shift is in prospect, nor do economic or financial developments argue for policy change," said William Griggs of Griggs and Santow Inc. Fed data released today were all in line with economists' expectations and similar to the numbers of recent weeks. The Fed said net discount window borrowings in the two weeks ended Wednesday averaged 191 mln dlrs, up from 381 mln dlrs in the February 25 statement period, but little changed from 160 mln dlrs in the period before that. It said that banks' net free reserves in the latest two weeks averaged 660 mln dlrs versus 675 mln dlrs previously. Finally, the Fed said that the M-1 money supply fell 800 mln dlrs in February, with the broader M-2 measure down 1.6 billion dlrs and M-3 up an even three billion dlrs. Analysts said that M-1 last month grew at a negative 1.3 pct annual rate compared with minus 0.7 pct for M-2 and actual positive growth of 1.0 pct annualized for M-3. February levels of M-2 and M-3 left the aggregates 18.2 and 20.8 billion dlrs under their respective upper growth limits set by the Fed for 1987. The annual growth target for both is 5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct. There is no M-1 target. "In the near term, there is absolutely no reason for the Fed to ease policy, even apart from the slowdown in money growth," said Stephen Slifer, economist at Lehman Government Securities Inc. Economists generally expect a modest pickup in monetary growth in March after February's anemic growth rates. However, they stress that money growth will not be strong enough to prevent the Fed from dropping interest rates further if the economy shows evidence of weakness. Commenting on February's decline in the key M-2 aggregate, Slifer said the main cause was a 3.2 billion dlr drop in money market deposits at banks. This number has risen three to four billion dlrs a month for a long while, he said, so February's weakness is not likely to persist. Slifer expects modest M-2 and M-3 growth rates of 3-1/2 to four pct during March. Griggs said that M-2 and M-3 in coming months should return to the five to seven pct annualized growth region and so continue to present no problem for the Fed. Economists said the Fed appears to be very comfortable with its current policy stance and it is likely to wait for perhaps several more months of economic data before deciding whether or not to ease its grip on reserves. Given the economy's fragility in many sectors, the analysts agreed that there is almost no chance that the Fed will choose to raise, rather than lower, interest rates when it next changes policy. "Discount window borrowings in the past week were about as low as the Fed can get them, although Fed funds held above six pct," said Williams of Bankers Trust. Funds averaged 6.12 pct in the week to Wednesday, up from 6.06 pct in the prior week. The Fed added reserves indirectly via one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements last Friday, 2.5 billion dlrs on Monday and two billion dlrs on Wednesday. On Tuesday, it added reserves directly through two-day System repurchases. Williams and Griggs agreed the Fed will let the funds rate be largely market-driven. They said it is focusing instead on a borrowings target of around 300 mln dlrs. Reuter 
INDIA GETS 140 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

The World Bank said it approved a 140 mln dlr loan for India to help lessen that country's dependence on imported oil and spur development of its own petroleum resources. The bank said the loan will be used to boost production by injecting gas in the partially depleted Assam oil fields and to assist exploration in other areas, including drilling 10 exploratory wells. The bank said the recipient of the 20-year loan will be Oil India Ltd (OIL), which is the smaller of two public Indian petroleum exploration and production companies. Reuter 
PHILIPPINE DEBT TALKS FINELY POISED, BANKERS SAY

Debt talks between the Philippine government and its bank advisory committee were delicately poised after a brief meeting between the two sides today, bankers and sources close to the Philippine delegation said. "We had a businesslike meeting and made good progress," a banker said. "The banks are anxious to come to an agreement." But bankers were reluctant to predict whether the talks would end successfully. Caution was also evident in the Philippine camp. "We feel the ball's in the banks' court," one source said. The two sides will meet again on Friday. The talks, in which the Philippines is seeking to reschedule about 9.4 billion dlrs of debt, are now dominated by a discussion of the innovative proposal made by finance minister Jaime Ongpin to pay part of the country's interest bill in Philippine Investment Notes, PINs, instead of cash. Manila wants to pay the London Interbank Offered Rate in cash and to issue PINs in respect of the margin above LIBOR. The banks rejected the original PINs proposal last Friday, but Ongpin presented a revised proposal on Monday which sought to satisfy the banks' objections by guaranteeing that the notes would yield 7/8 pct over LIBOR in cash. The banks have apparently yet to pass final judgment on the new proposal. Senior Reagan Administration officials expressed warm support for the PINs proposal this week, which gave Ongpin hope that the banks would embrace the idea. But the banks are still being circumspect, weighing possible accounting consequences as well as considering the precedents that they would set if they agreed to PINS. One of the main architects of the PINs proposal, U.S. lawyer Lee Buchheit, is adamant that the banks have nothing to worry about. "To the extent that it's a precedent, it's a precedent to be encouraged," Buchheit, a partner with Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen and Hamilton, told a debt-equity swaps conference sponsored by Euromoney magazine. Under the proposal, banks would sell the dollar-denominated PINs at a discount to multinational firms which would convert them into pesos at face value to fund government-approved equity investments in the Philippines. In effect, international firms would be paying part of Manila's interest bill, allowing the government to conserve much-needed hard currency. One of the beauties of the scheme, according to Buchheit, is that it widens the scope of third-world debt negotiations, which have been confined to debtors and creditors for the past 4-1/2 years. "There's another pool of cash at the table now," he said. David Mulford, Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, told the Euromoney conference that ideas such as PINs should be part of a "menu" of options available to banks instead of pure new-money packages. He said the difficulty of syndicating Mexico's 7.7 billion dlr loan package shows that new approaches must be encouraged. "We must face the fact that greater flexibility in devising new money packages may, in effect, be essential to future bank syndications," Mulford said. In an unusually frank comment about the Mexican deal, he said that dissatisfaction with Mexico's economic program and criticism of communication and coordination within the bank syndicate had prompted a number of banks to refuse to participate in the loan. This refusal "for a time appeared to jeopardize the prospects for successful agreement with the rest of the banks," Mulford said. The Mexican package is now due to be signed on March 20, but bankers said the U.S. clearly feels the need to breathe new life into the financing process, especially with crucial negotiations with Brazil, about to start. The banks for their part insist that they are more than willing to discuss Mulford's "menu", and say it is the debtors that need to be more flexible. For example, they say financing talks with Argentina are proving tough because Buenos Aires dislikes the debt-equity schemes and onlending provisions that the banks are promoting. But whether the banks are ready to endorse the PINs concept right away still hangs in the balance. Reuter 
U.S. JUDGE DISMISSES SUIT CHALLENGING IRAN PROBE

A U.S. Judge dismissed a lawsuit by fired White House aide Oliver North seeking to halt a special prosecutor's investigation into the Iran arms scandal. In a 21-page ruling, Judge Barrington Parker threw out North's suit challenging the constitutionality of the law empowering special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh to investigate secret White House arms sales to Iran and the diversion of profits to contra rebels in Nicaragua. "The nation demands an expeditious and complete disclosure of our government's involvement in the Iran-contra affair," Parker said in his ruling. REUTER 
U.S. DETAILS ITS ACTION PROGRAM FOR AFRICA

The U.S. Has given further details of an action program announced yesterday aimed at helping sub-Saharan Africa overcome hunger and economic problems, senior U.S. Offficials said. Under the new program, a 500-mln dlr Development Fund for Africa will be set up to consolidate most of the aid money going to the continent to replace the large number of bilateral accounts currently in existence. Chester Crocker, assistant secretary of state for Africa, said he believed Congress will favour the program, which stems from a U.N. Conference on Africa's economic problems. The 500-mln dlr fund, coupled with an additional 100 mln dlrs in food aid, would surpass Congress' 1986 vote of 483 mln dlrs for equivalent programs, officials said. Washington is also increasing its funding to the International Development Agency (IDA), the World Bank's soft loan affiliate, and is seeking a greater share of a bigger fund for Africa, they said. Officials said under the last IDA replenishment Africa got 37 pct of 8.7 billion dlrs, but the Reagan administration wants this increased to 45-50 pct of 12.8 billion dlrs in new funds. REUTER 
U.S. OFFICIALS DISAGREE ON REDUCING BUDGET DEFICIT

Senior U.S. Economic officials disagree on the likelihood the government can meet its budget deficit reduction targets. Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, reiterated the Reagan Administration's opposition to a tax increase and its pledge to reduce the deficit by cutting spending and fostering economic growth. By contrast, Rudolph Penner, Director of the Congressional Budget Office, said the budget process has broken down and the deficit will remain close to 200 billion dlrs for fiscal 1987. Sprinkel told a symposium sponsored by New York University that spending could be cut by avoiding decisions based on the desire to influence votes and by shifting the responsibility for local projects to state governments. He also suggested a line-item veto, which allows the President to veto parts of bill without rejecting all of it, to limit wasteful spending. Spending and taxing decisions should be linked more closely. Sprinkel said the Administration still looks for 2.7 pct growth in U.S. Real gross national product (GNP) in 1987 and 3.5 pct in 1988. Asked if the latest economic reports signal this rate of economic growth is attainable, Sprinkel said, "It looks pretty good to me. We've had two very strong employment reports." He also said federal reserve policy is appropriate, adding, "It looks like they're on track." While further reductions are needed in the trade deficit, Sprinkel said the lower dollar is having an impact. The new 1987 tax laws will not hurt the economy and the tax reform act of 1986 significantly lowers tax rates and will greatly increase private production incentives, he said. "Our estimates at the Council of Economic Advisers suggest national net output of goods and services will permanently increase by approximately two pct because of the long-run consequences of tax reform," Sprinkel said. "In 1986, this would have amounted to an increase of approximately 600 dlrs in the income of the average American family." Sprinkel also argued the 1981 tax cuts were not responsible for the large increase in the budget deficit. In fiscal 1986 ending September, federal spending amounted to 23.8 pct of GNP, while federal receipts absorbed 18.5 pct of GNP, leaving a deficit of 5.3 pct, he said. Sprinkel said that, compared with fiscal 1978, the 1986 federal expenditure share of GNP is 2.7 percentage points higher and the revenue share of GNP is virtually the same. "Contrary to the conventional wisdom, therefore, the 1981 tax cut is not the root cause of the extraordinary budget deficits of the past few years," Sprinkel said. "This tax cut merely rolled back the inflation-induced tax increases that occurred between 1978 and 1981," he added. However, the Congressional Budget Office's Rudolph Penner argued that the tax cut in 1981 was misguided. "Since making the big mistake in 1981 of cutting taxes enormously without any plan to decrease spending by the Administration or Congress, indeed with increases in defence spending, now all the options (for reducing the budget deficit) are unpleasant," he said. Penner said the tax cut resulted from the ideological turmoil in the U.S. Caused by the "biggest sustained inflation in our nation's history," which helped foster widespread distrust of government. "The American people turned on the government with tax revolt at the state level and new demands on the government at the national level," Penner said. "But their dislike of taxes exceeded their general dislike of spending programs. Now the correction of that 1981 mistake demands that the system change a lot." Penner sees little hope the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget deficit reduction targets will be met and said the deficit will remain at roughly 200 billion dlrs this year. He said a budget process that sets targets arbitrarily is not likely to succeed. "I feel pretty safe in saying that any process that tries to dictate a numerical outcome from above is doomed to fail simply because there's no ... Way to enforce it," Penner said. Penner questioned the methods by which the 1987 budget deficit was cut. He said 18 to 19 billion dlrs were eliminated by one-time measures, such as a temporary increase in taxes related to tax reform and sales of government assets. "Another four billion dlrs was cut by what I call creative timing changes, like moving the military payday from the last day of fiscal 1987 to the first day of fiscal 1988. That saved more than two billion dlrs," Penner said. REUTER 
REAGAN DID NOT RECALL APPROVING ARMS DEAL, COUNSEL

President Reagan's legal adviser said the President could not recall when he approved a 1985 arms sale to Iran, the New York Times reported. "We were trying to stimulate his (Reagan's) recollection and he had no recollection, although he remembered being surprised about something," Peter Wallison, who is resigning, was quoted as saying in an interview. "That led us to expect that he would not be able to recall (the date) when he appeared before the Tower board," Wallison said, referring to the question of whether Reagan gave prior approval to an Israeli shipment of U.S. Arms to Iran. Wallison said John Poindexter, then head of the National Security Council (NSC), kept him from probing the scandal for weeks after it was first made public last November, the Times reported. Wallison told the newspaper that Poindexter, who resigned from his NSC post last November 25, refused to give him information about the deal, despite pleas by former White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan. "Regan told me on several occasions that he had been unable to move Poindexter to include me in any of the discussions or to provide me with ... The facts," he said. REUTER 
U.S. LENDS SUDAN 57 MLN DLRS FOR WHEAT PURCHASES

The U.S. Is to lend Sudan 57 mln dlrs to buy 309,000 tonnes of wheat and 73,000 tonnes of wheat flour, according to an agreement signed here. Under the agreement Sudan will receive 50 mln dlrs for the commodities and the rest for sea transportation. The loan is repayable in 40 years, including a 10-year grace period. Interest will be two pct for the grace period and three pct over the repayment period of 30 years. REUTER 
U.S. OFFICIALS DISAGREE ON REDUCING DEFICIT

Senior U.S. Economic officials disagree on the likelihood the government can meet its budget deficit reduction targets. Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, reiterated the Reagan Administration's opposition to a tax increase and its pledge to reduce the deficit by cutting spending and fostering economic growth. By contrast, Rudolph Penner, Director of the Congressional Budget Office, said the budget process has broken down and the deficit will remain close to 200 billion dlrs for fiscal 1987. Sprinkel told a symposium sponsored by New York University that spending could be cut by avoiding decisions based on the desire to influence votes and by shifting the responsibility for local projects to state governments. He also suggested a line-item veto, which allows the President to veto parts of bill without rejecting all of it, to limit wasteful spending. Spending and taxing decisions should be linked more closely. Sprinkel said the Administration still looks for 2.7 pct growth in U.S. Real gross national product (GNP) in 1987 and 3.5 pct in 1988. Asked if the latest economic reports signal this rate of economic growth is attainable, Sprinkel said, "It looks pretty good to me. We've had two very strong employment reports." He also said federal reserve policy is appropriate, adding, "It looks like they're on track." While further reductions are needed in the trade deficit, Sprinkel said the lower dollar is having an impact. The new 1987 tax laws will not hurt the economy and the tax reform act of 1986 significantly lowers tax rates and will greatly increase private production incentives, he said. "Our estimates at the Council of Economic Advisers suggest national net output of goods and services will permanently increase by approximately two pct because of the long-run consequences of tax reform," Sprinkel said. "In 1986, this would have amounted to an increase of approximately 600 dlrs in the income of the average American family." Sprinkel also argued the 1981 tax cuts were not responsible for the large increase in the budget deficit. In fiscal 1986 ending September, federal spending amounted to 23.8 pct of GNP, while federal receipts absorbed 18.5 pct of GNP, leaving a deficit of 5.3 pct, he said. Sprinkel said that, compared with fiscal 1978, the 1986 federal expenditure share of GNP is 2.7 percentage points higher and the revenue share of GNP is virtually the same. "Contrary to the conventional wisdom, therefore, the 1981 tax cut is not the root cause of the extraordinary budget deficits of the past few years," Sprinkel said. "This tax cut merely rolled back the inflation-induced tax increases that occurred between 1978 and 1981," he added. However, the Congressional Budget Office's Rudolph Penner argued that the tax cut in 1981 was misguided. "Since making the big mistake in 1981 of cutting taxes enormously without any plan to decrease spending by the Administration or Congress, indeed with increases in defence spending, now all the options (for reducing the budget deficit) are unpleasant," he said. Penner said the tax cut resulted from the ideological turmoil in the U.S. Caused by the "biggest sustained inflation in our nation's history," which helped foster widespread distrust of government. "The American people turned on the government with tax revolt at the state level and new demands on the government at the national level," Penner said. "But their dislike of taxes exceeded their general dislike of spending programs. Now the correction of that 1981 mistake demands that the system change a lot." Penner sees little hope the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget deficit reduction targets will be met and said the deficit will remain at roughly 200 billion dlrs this year. He said a budget process that sets targets arbitrarily is not likely to succeed. "I feel pretty safe in saying that any process that tries to dictate a numerical outcome from above is doomed to fail simply because there's no ... Way to enforce it," Penner said. Penner questioned the methods by which the 1987 budget deficit was cut. He said 18 to 19 billion dlrs were eliminated by one-time measures, such as a temporary increase in taxes related to tax reform and sales of government assets. "Another four billion dlrs was cut by what I call creative timing changes, like moving the military payday from the last day of fiscal 1987 to the first day of fiscal 1988. That saved more than two billion dlrs," Penner said. REUTER 
U.S. PRODUCER PRICES ROSE 0.1 PCT IN FEB AFTER 0.6 PCT JAN RISE



U.S. PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.1 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The U.S. Producer Price Index for finished goods rose 0.1 pct on a seasonally adjusted basis in February, the Labor Department said. The increase came after a 0.6 pct increase in producer prices in January. Higher energy prices were primarily responsible for the increase in February, though they rose at a slower pace than they had in January, the department said. The finished goods index was up 0.1 pct from its February, 1986 level. Before seasonal adjustment, the index for finished goods stood at 292.3 over its 1967 base of 100. Among finished goods, the index for energy products rose four pct in February after a 9.8 pct increase in January. But price increases slowed sharply for gasoline and home heating oil, the department said. There were some price declines, including a 3.4 pct fall for passenger cars and 1.3 pct for light trucks from January levels. This reflected expanded factory-financed rebates and discount loan programs, the department said. Before seasonal adjustment, the index for finished goods stood at 292.3 over its 1967 base of 100. Among finished goods, the index for energy products rose four pct in February after a 9.8 pct increase in January. But price increases slowed sharply for gasoline and home heating oil, the department said. There were some price declines, including a 3.4 pct fall for passenger cars and 1.3 pct for light trucks from January levels. This reflected expanded factory-financed rebates and discount loan programs, the department said. The index for consumer foods fell 0.5 pct after a 1.8 pct drop in January as vegetables, pork and coffee cost less. The index for intermediate goods rose 0.5 pct following a sharp 0.9 pct rise in January. The department said that energy prices again were the main reason, with the index for intermediate energy up 2.7 pct. Gasoline and diesel fuel prices were about five pct higher, half the 10 pct jump recorded in January. The durable manufacturing materials index edged down 0.1 pct last month after jumping 1.0 pct in January as prices for steel, precious metals and copper stabilized. The department said lead and zinc prices fell, while hardwood lumber and cement cost more. The crude materials index rose 1.8 pct in February after a 2.9 pct rise in January. Crude energy materials were up 2.6 pct, much less than the 10 pct rise in January. Crude petroleum prices rose 4.4 pct last month after a sharp 19.7 pct rise in January. Price rises accellerated for logs and timber and tobacco, but fell for cotton, metal ores and copper and aluminum scrap. Among finished goods, gasoline rose 5.5 pct after a 15.7 pct January increase, and fuel oil was up three pct in February after an 18.0 pct increase in January. Reuter 
U.S. JUDGE DISMISSES SUIT CHALLENGING IRAN PROBE

A U.S. Judge dismissed a lawsuit by fired White House aide Oliver North seeking to halt a special prosecutor's investigation into the Iran arms scandal. In a 21-page ruling, Judge Barrington Parker threw out North's suit challenging the constitutionality of the law empowering special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh to investigate secret White House arms sales to Iran and the diversion of profits to contra rebels in Nicaragua. "The nation demands an expeditious and complete disclosure of our government's involvement in the Iran-contra affair," Parker said in his ruling. REUTER 
U.S. URGES BANKS TO DEVELOP NEW 3RD WLD FINANCE

The United States this week signaled it is pressing commercial banks, increasingly disenchanted with providing large cash loans to debtor nations, to develop new ways of financing that will prove more acceptable to both sides. Heading off challenges to its Third World debt strategy, U.S. officials also say they think concessions should be made to debtors that enact reforms speeding inflation-free growth. In particular, they stress new techniques that shift the emphasis from debt to equity and shave interest rates. "The strategy is sufficiently broad as an initiative or concept that there can be additional emphasis such as in debt-equity swaps and that sort of thing," a Reagan administration official said of the slow pace of commercial bank lending to the Third World. "The debtors have been performing well...some people argue that taking 1-1/8 pct down to 13/16 pct is debt forgiveness. Well if that's what it is, fine. What it really is a narrowing of the spread that could be charged on new money," the official said. This week, therefore, U.S. officials signaled their backing for a novel proposal by the Philippines that called for partial payment of interest in tradeable investment notes. On Tuesday, officials said Treasury Secretary James Baker told Secretary of State George Shultz the idea was a creative one and signaled his approval to Philippine Finance Minister Jamie Ongpin later that day. An administration official told Reuters this week the Philippines' proposal to partially pay interest with investment notes instead of cash should be considered seriously by the banks. An agreement with the banks, officials now say, is expected soon. "New bank lending has been slow in materializing but the fact of the matter is there have been 70 billion dlrs in bank loans restructured, which is a form of extension of credit. As you know, there's been 8.5 billion dlrs in new money," said the official, who plays a key role in keeping the plan afloat. The plan was launched in October 1985 by Secretary Baker and called on commercial and multilateral banks to lend 29 billion dlrs in the subsequent three years to major debtors undertaking reforms that promoting economic growth. But it has taken almost six months to complete the syndication of a 7.5 billion dlrs loan to Mexico, which has created deep misgivings here about the liklihood of such large straight cash loans being assembled ever again. U.S. officials want the banks not only to consider swapping their debts for equity in local corporations -- a development that has already met with success in Chile and Mexico -- but to pin loans on specific projects, finance trade and invest directly in debtor country private sectors. These forms of lending, they say, give the banks a greater stake and more economically secure return on investment. In a major challenge to the U.S. plan, Brazil last month declared a moratorium on interest payments and followed it up with a world tour by officials seeking a political way out of its 109 billion dlr debt burden. The country is beset by a falling trade surplus and dwindling reserves endangering its ability to service its foreeign debt, at 109 billion dlrs the Third World's largest. One official attending the Washington talks with Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro said "they've come in here now and said "Look, we're out of money, help us," but they haven't come in with a plan. And they've gone all over the world, and at every stop they've been told the same thing." The official said Brazil would have to enact a credible economic program, either in consultation with the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund, to cool its overheated economy before commercial banks would begin negotiations. As a result of the Brazilian action, private banks and major debtor nations redoubled their efforts to reach agreements stretching out debt repayments. For its part, the administration has signaled its strong support for new techniques that in some cases effectively amount to interest rate concessions for major debtor nations. It pressed the banks to allow Chile to make annual instead of bi-annual interest payments, speeding an accord. Administration officials, who asked not to be named, have also debated whether to allow banks greater flexibility in building up loan loss reserves against Third World loans. The debate centers on a rule, known as FASB-15, under which banks experiencing delayed interest payments on real estate loans need not set aside reserves against debt principal if it is believed payments will resume. More recently, the rule was extended to cover farm and energy loans and Senator Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat, has suggested it should be extended to Third World loans. Bradley is prominent among Congressmen urging that provisions for debt relief be attached to tough new trade legislation now being considered on Capitol Hill. But the officials said the debate has been inconclusive. Reuter 
U.S. FEB INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ROSE 0.5 PCT AFTER REVISED 0.1 PCT JAN GAIN



U.S. FEB INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ROSE 0.5 PCT

U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct in February after a revised 0.1 pct increase in January, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed previously said industrial production rose 0.4 pct in January. The Fed said the February gain was dominated by a sharp rise in motor vehicle production, which boosted output of both consumer goods and business equipment. Industrial production stood at 127.3 pct of the 1977 average in February and was up 1.7 pct from a year ago, the Fed said. The Fed also revised the December industrial production figure to a gain of 0.5 pct from 0.3 pct originally reported. Manufacturing output rose 0.5 pct in February after a 0.1 pct increase in January and included gains of 0.8 pct in durables and 0.1 pct in non-durables, the Fed said. Manufacturing was 2.4 pct above the year ago level. Production of auto assemblies rose to an annual rate of 8.3 mln units last month from a January rate of 7.5 mln units. Output of consumer goods rose 0.6 pct after falling 0.3 pct in January and output of consumer durables was up 2.1 pct in February after falling by 2.0 pct in January. Business equipment production rose 1.0 pct in February, reflecting more output of autos and trucks for business use and a recovery from strikes in farm equipment industries, the Fed said. Mining output rose 0.1 pct after a 1.6 pct increase in January, but was still six pct lower than a year ago. Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after a 1.2 pct rise in January. Output of defense and space equipment was up 0.4 pct, the same as in January, and 6.2 pct higher than a year ago. Output of construction supplies rose 0.2 pct in February after a 1.5 pct January rise. Materials output increased by 0.2 pct last month, the fourth consecutive monthly increase after declining throughout much of 1986. The recent strength in materials has been concentrated in textiles, paper and chemicals, the Fed said. Output of home goods was up 0.3 pct in February and the Fed said production of items like appliances and furniture continued strong last month. Reuter 
CME BOARD LIMITS BUT DOES NOT BAN DUAL TRADING

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange's (CME) board of directors issued a letter to its members that sets limits, but does not ban, dual trading in the S and P 500 futures and options pit. The rules prohibit brokers who execute customer orders to trade for their own account, or engage in dual trading, from the top step of the pit -- which the board defines as a geographically advantageous position in the pit. Brokers who engage in dual trading in other areas of the pit must record to the nearest minute those personal trades. The board will also set as yet unspecified percentage limits on the trades brokers can conduct among "broker groups," otherwise known as "trading rings." By issuing its own rules, the CME's board rejected a petition presented in February by some CME members that sought to prohibit dual trading of any kind in the S and P 500 pits. The full CME membership will vote on the petition, since it was rejected by the board, by April 13. If the members reject the petition, the board would be free to implement its rules, a CME spokesman said. However, the members can vote to adopt the petition and institute a total ban on dual trading. The board's rules on dual trading, if implemented, would prohibit brokers from trading for their own account once they have executed a customer order from the top step of the pit. "It's a step in the right direction," said stock futures analysts William Marcus of Donaldson, Lufkin, Jenrette Inc. "It's very difficult to engage in large broker business from anywhere but the top step," he said. "If there were abuses, (the rules) should act to curb them," Marcus added. The spokesman for the CME said the tenor of the board of directors' letter to members appears to leave open the possibility of additional limits on dual trading. In addition, the limits set forth so far will have to be more closely defined. Reuter 
CITICORP <CCI> DENIES RUMORS OF DEBT WRITEDOWN

Citicorp denied financial market rumors that it has written off some of its loans to Latin American debtors, "Rumors that we have written off any of our Latin American debt are unfounded," a Citicorp spokesman told Reuters in response to London-based rumors in the money markets. Citicorp is the largest bank group in the U.S. and one of the biggest lenders to Latin America, with some eight to nine billion dlrs outstanding to Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, bank analysts said. In response to more specific market rumors that it had taken action on its exposure to Brazil, Citicorp said it made an 8-K filing on the subject with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday in relation to a registration statement for a preferred stock issue. Citing the filing, Citicorp said that Brazil's recent suspension of interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt and related actions "may require Citicorp to place 3.9 billion dlrs of intermediate and long-term Brazilian loans on a cash basis." When loans are placed on a cash basis, interest or principal payments are only booked when received instead of being accrued on their due dates, analysts noted. However, Citicorp said in the 8-K filing that "it is premature to make such a decision at this time in view of the fluidity of the situation and management's high confidence in the long-term outlook for Brazil." Brazil's new central bank governor Francisco Gros met senior commercial bankers here on Wednesday and Citicorp said formal talks on Brazil's recent actions and future financing needs should begin in "the near future". Citicorp said in the filing, "the issue will be re-evaluated at the end of the first quarter." The bank group continued, "if it is decided that these loans to Brazil should be placed on a cash basis, Citicorp estimates, based on existing interest rates, that the impact in the first quarter would be approximately 50 mln dlrs after tax and for the full year would be approximately 190 mln dlrs after tax." It added that these amounts include interest accrued in 1986 that has not yet been collected. Although Citicorp denied earlier rumors of major loan writedowns, its warning that it may have to place some of its Brazilian loans on non-accrual unnerved many Wall Street investors. The common stock price was down one dlr to 51-1/8 after the first hour on a volume of over 500,000 shares. However, Lawrence Cohn, analyst at Merrill Lynch and Co Inc, said that the market's nervousness was not really warranted. "Citicorp can afford it," he said. "The amounts they are talking about are peanuts." REUTER...^M 
U.S. JAN BUSINESS INVENTORIES ROSE 0.9 PCT AFTER A REVISED 0.6 PCT DEC FALL



U.S. JANUARY BUSINESS INVENTORIES ROSE 0.9 PCT

U.S. business inventories rose 5.6 billion dlrs, or 0.9 pct, to a seasonally adjusted 592.19 billion dlrs in January, the Commerce Department said. It was the largest inventory rise since July, 1979, when inventories were up 1.7 pct. In December, inventories fell a revised 3.4 billion dlrs, or 0.6 pct, to 586.65 billion dlrs. Previously, the department said inventories fell 0.5 pct in December. Business sales fell 20.1 billion dlrs, or 4.5 pct, in January to 428.75 billion dlrs after rising by three pct in December to 448.82 billion dlrs. The department said it was the largest monthly sales drop on record. January inventories were up 8.2 billion dlrs, or 1.4 pct, from the year-ago level of 583.99 billion dlrs. Durable goods inventories rose 1.4 pct to 366.13 billion in January dlrs while nondurables inventories were up 0.2 pct from December levels to 226.07 billion dlrs. Manufacturers inventories were up 0.5 pct to 277.02 billion dlrs in January after falling by 0.3 pct in December to 275.53 billion dlrs. Wholesalers' inventories rose 1.3 pct in January to 140.25 billion dlrs. The inventory-to-sales ratio rose to 1.38, up .07 from December, the department said. January's sales were 2.82 billion dlrs or 0.7 pct below the January, 1986, level of 431.56 billion dlrs. Reuter 
HOME GROUP <HME> APPROVED FOR NYSE LISTING

Home Group Inc said its common stock will be listed on the <New York Stock Exchange> on March 31. The stock now trades on the Amex. Reuter 
U.S. FIRMS LOBBY FOR DUTCH HELICOPTER ORDER

A delegation from McDonnell-Douglas Corp <MD.N> will visit the Dutch parliament on Monday in an attempt to win a 2.5-billion guilder helicopter order, a Defence Ministry spokesman said. U.S. Helicopter manufacturer <Sikorsky> approached Dutch parliamentarians and army officials last month, he added. The Dutch seek 50 new army helicopters over a 10-year period and plan to replace Lynx navy helicopters before the year 2000. The first batch of 20 helicopters has to be operative in 1990, while the next 30 will be introduced gradually in the following years, spokesman Cent van Vliet said. The U.S. Visit come as the Dutch have already narrowed down their options to the Mongoose of Italian producer <Agusta Spa> and the Panther of French firm <Aerospatiale>, Van Vliet said. The Dutch had not considered U.S. Helicopters, he said, adding the Ministry planned to present its choice to parliament in May. European models rejected include the Lynx III of British manufacturer <Westland>. A parliamentary accounting watchdog this week blasted the performance of 22 older versions of the Lynx currently used by the navy, saying they were hardly up to their job. REUTER 
SOVIETS RUMORED TO HAVE BOUGHT MORE U.S. CORN

The Soviet Union is rumored this morning to have bought up to 1.5 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, export trade sources said. The amount was not confirmed, but the talk was widespread through the trade. Gulf cash barge basis levels jumped two to three cents this morning on the rumors, which were expected to boost futures prices on today's open. The Soviet Union recently bought over 1.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, ostensibly as a conciliatory gesture ahead of trade talks with U.S. agriculture officials. Purchases rumored today were seen as a positive factor in light of a Soviet trade official's statement that the previous purchase had satisfied near-term needs. Reuter 
NYSE, NYFE MOVE INDEX FUTURES/OPTIONS EXPIRATION

The <New York Stock Exchange> said it and its <New York Futures Exchange> affiliate will move the expiration of their respective index options and index futures contracts to the opening of trading in the underlying stock on expiration Friday from the close of trading. The exchange said it has submitted the changes to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for approval. The exchange said, "The NYSE has long advocated settlement in the morning rather than at the close of trading as a practical way to deal with order imbalances and price volatility which historically occur on triple witching days." The "triple witching hour" falls four times a year when stock options, index options and futures on index options all expire on the third Friday of every month, leading to major last-hour market swings. On the last triple witching Friday, December 19, the NYSE traded almost 85 mln shares at the close of the market. The next triple witching hour will take place Friday March 20. The exchange said, "Morning settlement would expose order imbalances to the full sunlight of public disclosure, ensure the broadest dissemination of market information and facilitate the participation of all interested investors." Reuter 
NYSE, NYFE MOVE INDEX FUTURES/OPTIONS EXPIRATION

The New York Stock Exchange said it and its New York Futures Exchange affiliate will move the expiration of their respective index options and index futures contracts to the opening of trading in the underlying stock on each expiration Friday from the close of trading. The exchange said it has submitted the changes to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for approval. The exchange said, "The NYSE has long advocated settlement in the morning rather than at the close of trading as a practical way to deal with order imbalances and price volatility which historically occur on so-called "triple witching days." The triple witching hour falls four times a year when individual stock options, stock index futures and options on stock indexes all expire on the third Friday of the month, which has led to volatile last-hour market swings. On the last triple witching Friday, December 19, the NYSE traded almost 85 mln shares at the close of the market. The next triple witching hour will take place Friday, March 20. The exchange said, "Morning settlement would expose order imbalances to the full sunlight of public disclosure, ensure the broadest dissemination of market information, and facilitate the participation of all interested investors." Reuter 
YEUTTER SAYS DLR LEVEL BASED ON ECONOMIC POLICY

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said that whether the exchange rate of the dollar would fall or rise in the coming decade would depend on nations' financial, monetary and tax policies. But, he said, in a speech and remarks to the Heritage Foundation, that in the end "the marketplace will ultimately rule the day." Asked about the future of the dollar, he said that whether or not it would rise or fall depended on economic policies and coooperation among trading nations. Yeutter said "if nations do the right kinds of things in financial, monetary and tax policies, then a lesser burden of adjustment is placed on exchange rates, and one could envision a situation of the major trading nations moving back far closer to what most of us would consider equilibrium and exchange rates becoming relatively stable." But he said, on the other hand, that if nations did not exhibit greater self discipline and international cooperation, "It is simply inevitable that the exchange rates will make that adjustment." Reuter 
GALAXY CABLEVISION <GTV> BEGINS AMEX TRADING

The American Stock Exchange said 2,150,000 limited partnership units of newly formed Galaxy Cablevision LP began trading today. It said the partnership, based in Sikeston, Mo., will buy and operate cable television systems in six states. Trading opened on 3,000 units at 20-3/8, the AMEX said. Reuter 
COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES <CCE> OPTIONS ON CBOE

The Chicago Board Options Exchange said it will begin trading call and put options March 16 on Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. It said options will trade on the February quarterly expiration cycle with initial exercise prices set at 15, 17-1/2 and 20 and position limits of 8,000 contracts on the same side of the market. It said the new listing augments the exchange's trading of Coca-Cola Co <KO>. Reuter 
USSR LIVESTOCK MAY BE IN GOOD SHAPE-U.S. REPORT

Soviet livestock herds are possibly in better shape than expected after the recent harsh winter, the U.S. agriculture counselor in Moscow said. Livestock procurement levels for January and February were recently reported in a Soviet agriculture newspaper to be up five pct from year ago levels, an attache report said. "These procurement levels ... are surprisingly normal given the harshness of the 1986/87 winter ... indicating neither abnormal distress slaughter nor subnormal livestock product output. While the overwintering period is not over yet, the worst of it is, and herds are possibly in better shape than expected," the counselor said. A healthy livestock sector will keep Soviet feed demand strong and impact USSR grain imports, analysts said. January livestock procurement levels were up only 1.6 pct, indicating a turn around in February, an Agriculture Department analyst of the Soviet Union said. The analyst said an easing of the cold weather in February, coupled with heavy amounts of grain fed to the animals would account for the rise in procurements. "There's no question that the (Soviet) livestock is in good shape," he said. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE SAYS TRADE BILL GENERALLY GOOD

White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the administration had some disagreements with the trade bill that cleared a House subcommittee yesterday but generally felt good about the bill. "Generally we feel very good about the bipartisan consideration of the trade legislation. I think we are progressing very well," he told reporters. "There are wide areas of agreement. There are some areas of disagreement," he said. Reuter 
U.S. CONSERVATION SIGNUP SEEN 10 TO 12 MLN ACRES

Grain traders and analysts look for a 10 to 12 mln acre sign-up in the USDA's conservation reserve program, scheduled to be announced after 1400 CST today. The USDA probably will accept about 80 to 90 pct of the acres submitted, they said. Total enrollment in the first three years of the program is only 8.9 mln acres, so the sharp increase expected this year has underpinned new crop corn futures all week. However, some analysts said a 10 to 12 mln acre sign-up may end up being negative to new crop corn prices, citing trade talk earlier this year that 14 to 15 mln acres may be submitted by farmers. Also, acres set-aside under the conservation program are by definition poor yielding, so the impact on total corn production will be minimal, they added. Reuter 
IADB CHIEF WARNS OF EVENTUAL LATIN DEFAULT

Antonio Ortiz Mena, president of the Inter-American Development Bank, warned that if Latin countries were unable to speed up their economic growth, then in the long run there would be a default. He told a press conference foreshadowing the bank's annual meeting next week, "For the banks it is convenient to be repaid. But to achieve that, the countries need to grow. If they don't, then in the long run there will be a default." Ortiz Mena warned that Latin America needed to reverse the capital outflows from the region and beyond that needed more resources. Ortiz Mena declined to agree with estimates that capital outflows from Latin America last year totaled 35 billion dlrs and that therefore he was calling for an inflow into the region above that sum. He said the U.S. debt strategy, which envisaged stepped up lending by commercial and multilateral banks to major debtor nations of 29 billion dlrs over three years, was insufficient to achieve the necessary rates of growth. But he did stress the U.S. plan was important and the right approach. Ortiz Mena said, "It is in the interest of the creditors, not only the debtors, to push forward the development process in Latin America and that has happened." He added, "The only problem is the resources have not been enough." Turning to Brazil, whose growth rate he predicted will decline slightly this year from 1986, Ortiz Mena said the country's moratorium was the right action in order to avert a long term default. "So it's preferable they negotiate now," a move which would eliminate any chance of panic in the markets. Ortiz Mena also said that Brazilian authorities have opened negotiations already with commercial banks. He pointed out Brazil took the action because of its deteriorating economic situation. Reuter 
CME BOARD PLAN SAID NOT ANSWER TO DUAL TRADING

A proposal by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's (CME) board of directors to restrict dual trading by stock-index futures floor brokers would not provide a solution to alleged abuses in the market, House Small Business Committee chief economist John Helmuth said. Helmuth worked on legislation offered earlier this week by Rep. Neil Smith (D-Iowa) to ban dual trading in the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index futures trading pit. Last night the CME board recommended curbing, but not banning, dual trading in S and P 500 futures and options. The CME board rejected a petition presented in February by some members seeking an outright ban on dual trading, whereby floor brokers trade for their own accounts as well as for customers. Helmuth said the board's proposal would not prevent traders from falsifying the record that shows the times of their trades. Helmuth predicted Smith's bill would be closely examined by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, chaired by Rep. John Dingell (R-Michigan). Dingell and his staff were unavailable for comment. Reuter 
PRESIDENT REAGAN VOWS NO TAX RATE INCREASE AS LONG AS HE IS PRESIDENT



USSR HEAVY BUYERS OF YUGOSLAV CORN-U.S. REPORT

The Soviet Union has been a heavy buyer of Yugoslav corn since October, purchasing close to 1.5 mln tonnes in the 1986/87 marketing year, according to a report from the U.S. agriculture counselor in Belgrade. Approximately 1.5 mln tonnes of Yugoslav corn have already been committed to foreign buyers for 1986/87, with most of this sold to the Soviet Union, the Yugoslav Grain Association reported to the U.S. official. In a report dated March 10, the official said that about 800,000 tonnes of the corn has been delivered, with the balance of 700,000 tonnes to be shipped between now and June. An additional 500,000 tonnes of corn can be shipped from July-September, the grain associaiton said, so total Yugoslav corn exports could reach 2.0 mln tonnes, the counselor said. Heavier than normal monthly shipping rates for Yugoslav corn exports are due to the increased use of river barges for exporting corn to the Soviet Union, the counselor said. Monthly corn shipments out of Yugoslavia have averaged around 160,000 tonnes since October 1, higher than earlier estimates of 150,000, the official said. The Soviet Union has taken an increased share of Yugoslav corn sales during this marketing year, he said. Reuter 
REAGAN VOWS TO BLOCK TAX HIKE IN HIS PRESIDENCY

President Reagan told a group of supporters his pledge to veto a tax hike is solid, adding, "There will be no tax rate increase in the 100th Congress." While he did not mention House Speaker Jim Wright by name, Reagan said that some members of Congress were urging that taxes be raised. "I'm sorry but that's just not going to happen," said Reagan. "We're not going to break faith with the American people." "I promise you, tax reform will go ahead as scheduled," the president added. "All these tax hike schemes have as much chance of flying as a dead duck," he said. Reagan combined his strongly-stated opposition to a tax hike with a warning to Congress to meet the deficit reduction targets set by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget control law. Failure to do so, he said, would jeopardize a continuation of the current favorable economic climate. Reuter 
U.S. MAKES CONCILIATORY MOVE AT RUBBER PACT TALKS

The U.S. Has dropped its insistence that the floor price in a new International Natural Rubber Agreement, INRA, be revised downward under certain circumstances, conference sources said. The surprise conciliatory move by the U.S. Meets one of the producers' main concerns -- that the floor price, or "lower indicative price," remain unchanged, they said. It is not clear, however, whether all consuming countries will follow suit, as a number of them, in particular Britain, West Germany and Belgium, appeared to have strong reservations, the sources added. The group of consumers has been seeking an adjustment of the "lower indicative price" (set at 150 Malaysian/Singapore cents a kilo in the present pact) if the buffer stock, currently 360,000 tonnes, rises to 450,000 tonnes. The sources said the question of to what extent price adjustments should be automatic remains a problem. Conference chairman Manaspas Xuto of Thailand has been holding consultations with producers and consumers throughout the day. The consumers' group is now holding a separate meeting ahead of further consultations within the "president's group" tonight. Reuter 
FED SEEN CONTENT WITH U.S. FEBRUARY ECONOMY

U.S. February reports reflecting slim gains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressures reinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continue to follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said. "If you're the Fed, there's no reason to do anything," said Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc. "There are hints that GNP is picking up. On the inflation front, all is well," he said. "Money supply is well under control. It's an absolutely ideal situation." February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightly less than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected. This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in January's production number, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase. The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct, less than a 0.3-0.4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pct rise in the PPI in January. "The Fed is going to look at this positively," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation. "Certainly inflation is not as bad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrial production growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants." The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct in February, after a 9.8 pct increase in January. "This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflation is behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs per barrel," said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "The trend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year." In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pct decline in the PPI. Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected, but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car prices fell 3.4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct. Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said that a possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in both the financial markets and the Federal Reserve. "The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectations today," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International. While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easier monetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise this could necessitate a weaker dollar. "The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air," he said. "We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete with foreign producers." Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pct in February's PPI. With many electronic goods produced overseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raising prices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said. If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminish overseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which might necessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices. By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8 pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting to a large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real value of the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987. Slifer said import prices may rise further as manufacturers' contracts put in place before the dollar dropped to current levels expire, and new contracts are made that reflect a weaker dollar. David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that imported manufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in the second half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S. industrial output. "It's the other side of the lower dollar," Wyss said. "Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitive and they are increasing output." Wyss said that the latest data point to an average industrial production gain of 0.3-0.4 pct in the first quarter. "It's an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector is beginning to revive." But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. He said much of the strength came from factors that do not point to a sustained rise in industrial output. Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farm equipment industries helped account for a one pct rise in February business equipment production. Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2 pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energy was produced, not that manufacturing activity gained. Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted for half of the industrial production gain as production of auto assemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5 million units. "In the first quarter, it looks like automakers are producing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling at roughly a seven mln unit rate," Roach said. "The disparity between output and sales is showing up in inventories." Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. business inventories as a sign that production may be outstripping demand in the first quarter of 1987. January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gain since July 1979 when inventories rose 1.7 pct, the Commerce Department said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, the largest monthly sales drop on record. Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react to month-to-month changes. "The Fed has been standing pat for the last seven months," Ramirez said. "They will continue to stand pat for at least the next couple of months." Reuter 
MOBIL <MOB> CAPITAL EXPENDITURES LOWER IN 1987

Mobil Corp chairman Allen E. Murray said in the annual report issued today that the company's total 1987 capital expenditures would be lower than the three billion dlrs spent in 1986. "Overall capital and exploration expenditures will fall slightly below the level for 1986 although we'll be ready to increase spending whenever the outlook becomes more promising," Murray said. Mobil data in the annual report shows capital expenditures have been cut every year since 1984's 3.6 billion dlrs to 3.5 billion dlrs in 1985. Murray told shareholders that despite the cuts "the company has promising acreage to explore as well as major oil and gas reserves to develop in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Africa and Indonesia. Over the past two weeks Mobil has announced restructuring of its domestic exploration and development organization and this week a restructuring of its oil services units, which support the new affiliate. "Mobil's chairman has explained this change by saying we need a leaner organization to get more efficient usage from our assets," said John Lord, a Mobil Corp spokesman. Murray said in announcing the first reorganization, which will combine its current three exploration and producing affiliates into one organization, Mobil Exploration and Production U.S. Inc, that it is more effective than the present organization and will improve the company's upstream competitive position. Yesterday the company said that it will restructure its Mobil Exploration and Producing Services Inc, MEPSI, to enhance the development and transfer of technology supporting critical areas of exploration, drilling, resevoir management and computer systems. Earnings from Mobil's upstream operations in 1986 were 827 mln dlrs, down 54 pct from the previous year's 1.8 billion dlrs in earnings. Mobil's strategy in the exploration and production sector will be to give most attention to exploration possibilities with the greatest long term potential, the company said. In its annual report, Mobil said that this will include greater emphasis on "frontier plays that, although riskier, fit our strengths of technology and size...This probably also means a shift toward emphasis in the foreign area since selective overseas exploration offers greater potential." Reuter 
MOBIL <MOB> ADDS NATURAL GAS RESERVES IN 1986

Mobil Corp increased net proven reserves of natural gas liquids in 1986 from the previous year according to data in its 1986 annual report. The report states that total net proved reserves at year's end stood at 2.5 billion barrels, an increase of 94 mln barrels or four pct above the previous year and detailed data show that the gains resulted from an increase in net proved reserves of natural gas liquids. Mobil said gains were in Indonesia where a sixth production facility began operation in October with a capacity to manufacture 1.7 mln tonnes of liquified natural gas. The company also said that new capacity brought onstream last year replaced 120 pct of Mobil's production, which declined by about four pct in 1986 from the previous year. Detailed data on reserves shows that U.S. net proved reserves of crude oil fell to 837 mln barrels from 853 mln barrels in 1985, natural gas liquid reserves were also lower in 1986 from the previous year. Net proved crude oil reserves also fell in Canada to 224 mln barrels and in Europe to 403 mln barrels from the previous year's level of 231 mln barrels and 439 mln barrels, respectively. Reuter 
TALKING POINT/BANK STOCKS

CitiCorp <CCI> appears to be digging in its heels for tough negotiations over the billions of dollars in loans that Brazil owes to money center banks, Wall Street analysts said. "I view it as pre-negotiation posturing," said analyst Carole Berger of Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc, referring to both Brazil and Citicorp. Brazil recently stopped paying interest on its commercial bank debt. Today, CitiCorp said its first quarter income would be reduced by 50 mln dlrs after tax if it lists the loans as non-performing status. Citicorp filed an 8-K form with the Securities and Exchange Commission, indicating a material change in its financial situation. "Citicorp is saying you can't scare us with threats, we'll make your loans non-performing right now," Berger said. The loans have to be treated as non-performing after 90 days without a payment. CitiCorp said only that the situation will be reviewed at the end of the current quarter. Berger asserted that Brazil is doing its own politicking by talking to U.S. regulators and trying to drive a wedge between U.S. and European banks. Analyst Lawrence Cohn of Merrill Lynch and Co said it is unlikely the situation will be resolved until the second half of this year. "Ultimately the Brazilians are going to have to pay up on all the interest they owe," Cohn said. "The real issue is the rescheduling of debt terms. Another question is whether or not the International Monetary Fund can help Brazil with a new austerity program. Stocks of money center banks were mostly down fractions in late dealings. One trader most stocks in the group bounced off their lows by midday as investors took the news in stride. Cohn said the bank stocks may be risky until numbers on non-performing loans are reported for each bank. But he said investors looking ahead six to 12 months might want to buy at present levels for the "tremendous fundamental values" in the group. Analyst Robert Gordon of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc said Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC) has the greatest exposure to Brazilian loans of any New York bank, in terms of percentage of earnings. He said his only two recommendations currently among New York banks are J.P. Morgan and Co <JPM> and Bankers Trust Co <BT> which happen to have the least exposure. Gordon said his positive opinion on J.P. Morgan and Bankers Trust was not merely a response to the fact that the two have lower exposure to Brazilian loans than other banks. In fact he said there's a chance those banks could get more involved in the future. He noted that Morgan has already set up a brokerage subsidiary to deal in loans to less developed countries. "I don't see any reason to change full year earnings estimates, said Frederick Meinke, analyst at E.F. Hutton Co. He thinks the confrontation with Brazil could end in a replay of a situation that occurred with Argentina in 1984 and 1985. Meinke noted that in the case of Argentina the loans became non-accruing for a couple of quarters but then when the banks came to an agreement with Argentina all the back interest was paid. "What it did was distort the quarterly earnings pattern," he said. He said in the case of Brazil write-offs of loans is a worst-case outcome which is highly unlikely. He noted that Brazil is a country with a diversified economy, going through some economic upheaval after the transition from a military to a civilian government. "The countries of Latin America have too much debt relative to their ability to service it," said John Mason of Interstate Securities. "We've been fiddling around with these problems for five years and the hour is growing late." He said up to now the banks have reduced their spreads, cut interest rates internally and extended maturities and none of these measures has been enough. He expects re-classification of as much as a third of the loans as non-accruing and he sees partial write downs of some loans. Nevertheless Mason thinks the money center bank stocks could be poised for a short term rally. A spokesman at First Chicago Corp <FNB> said it is premature to put Brazil's loans on a cash basis. "It is our expectation that economic development will allow Brazil to meet its debt," a spokesman said. Bankers Trust in New York said it would be premature to make a decision. Several other banks queried by Reuters said much the same thing. A spokesman at Manufacturers Hanover noted that of 2.3 billion dlrs in loan exposure to Brazil only 1.3 billion is subject to Brazil's unilateral moratorium on repayment of interest. Reuter 
USDA'S EXPORT BONUS SAID TO AFFECT TRADE TALKS

The U.S. Agriculture Department's Export Enhancement Program, EEP, contributed to the recent agreement to include farm subsidies in the new round of global trade talks, according to the General Accounting Office. GAO Senior Associate Director Allan Mendelowitz told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that the EEP has increased the cost of the European Community's Common Agricultural Policy. However, there is little reason to believe that once EEP expires, gains in U.S. farm exports attributable to the program will be sustained in targeted markets, he said. Mendelowitz said broadening the EEP by making it across-the-board would eliminate charges of discrimination by traditional buyers and increase pressure on the EC, but antagonize non-subsidizing exporters. Reuter 
NUMEROUS FACTORS SAID POINT TO USSR CORN BUYING

A greater than anticipated need, competitive prices and political motivations could be sparking Soviet interest in U.S. corn, industry and government officials said. As rumors circulated through grain markets today that the Soviet Union has purchased an additional 1.5 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, industry and government sources noted a number of factors that make Soviet buying of U.S. corn likely. First, there are supply concerns. Some trade sources said recent speculation has been that last year's Soviet grain crop be revised to only 190 mln tonnes, rather than the 210 mln announced, therby increasing the Soviet need for grain. A drop in Argentine corn crop prospects could also affect Soviet corn buying, an Agriculture Department source said. Dry weather in Argentina -- a major corn supplier to the USSR -- and reported crop problems prompted USDA to lower its Argentine 1986/87 corn crop estimate this week to 11.0 mln tonnes, down from 11.5 mln. Argentina corn exports were also cut by 500,000 tonnes to 6.8 mln tonnes. Argentina has already committed four mln tonnes of this year's corn for export, a USDA official said, with two mln tonnes of that booked for April-June delivery to the USSR. "Significant downside potential" still exists for the Argentine crop, the official said, which will decrease the amount of additional corn that country can sell to Moscow. "If the Soviet needs are greater than we have been thinking, then they might need more than what Argentina can provide during the April to June period," he said. Current competitive prices for U.S. corn have also sparked Soviet buying. U.S. corn was reported to be selling on the world market earlier this week for around 71 dlrs per tonne, Argentine corn for 67 dlrs -- a very competitive price spread, U.S. and Soviet sources said. "This price difference makes American corn competitive," Albert Melnikov, commercial counselor for the Soviet Union, told Reuters. Impending crop problems in Argentina will likely cause those prices to rise, and with the recently strong U.S. corn futures prices, the Soviets might feel corn prices have bottomed and that this is a good time to buy, sources said. Finally, some industry sources said that by buying the minimum amount of corn guaranteed under the U.S./USSR grains agreement (four mln tonnes), the Soviet Union may be hoping to convince the USDA to offer Moscow a subsidy on wheat. In an inteview with Reuters this week, USDA secretary Richard Lyng said that no decision had been made on a wheat subsidy offer, but that such an offer had not been ruled out. Reuter 
USDA REPORTS 10.572 MLN ACRES IN CONSERVATION

The U.S. Agriculture Department has accepted 10,572,402 more acres of highly erodable cropland into the Conservation Reserve Program, USDA announced. In the latest signup, farmers on 101,020 farms submitted bids on a total of 11,254,837 acres. The accepted bids for annual rental payments ranged up to 90 dlrs per acre with an average of 51.17 dlrs per acre. Land entered into the Conservation Reserve Program will be ineligible for farming for ten years and must be planted with permanent vegetative cover. Producers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn "bonus" rental payment that was offered by USDA. The corn bonus, to be paid in generic comodity certificates, amounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the ASCS program payment yield for corn, for each acre of corn based accepted into the reserve. The state showing the biggest enrollment in the conservation program during this signup was Texas with approximately 1.225 mln acres, followed by Iowa with 1.030 mln acres, Minnesota with 890,000 acres, Montana 875,000 acres, and Kansas with 842,000 acres. Other states showing big enrollment were Missouri with 646,000 acres, North Dakota with 588,000 acres, and Nebraska with 554,000 acres. In the corn belt states of Illinois and Indiana, 217,000 acres and 116,000 acres respectively were enrolled. Farm land signed up to date in the conservation program totals 19,488,587 acres. Bids on the previous signups ranged up to 90 dlrs per acre with an average of 45.52 dlrs. Reuter 
BRAZIL DEBT POSES THORNY ISSUE FOR U.S. BANKS

CitiCorp <CCI> appears to be digging in its heels for tough negotiations over the billions of dollars in loans that Brazil owes to money center banks, Wall Street analysts said. "I view it as pre-negotiation posturing," said analyst Carole Berger of Cyrus J. Lawrence Inc, referring to both Brazil and Citicorp. Brazil recently stopped paying interest on its commercial bank debt. Today, CitiCorp said its first quarter income would be reduced by 50 mln dlrs after tax if it lists the loans as non-performing status. Citicorp filed an 8-K form with the Securities and Exchange Commission, indicating a material change in its financial situation. "Citicorp is saying you can't scare us with threats, we'll make your loans non-performing right now," Berger said. The loans have to be treated as non-performing after 90 days without a payment. CitiCorp said only that the situation will be reviewed at the end of the current quarter. Berger asserted that Brazil is doing its own politicking by talking to U.S. regulators and trying to drive a wedge between U.S. and European banks. Analyst Lawrence Cohn of Merrill Lynch and Co said it is unlikely the situation will be resolved until the second half of this year. "Ultimately the Brazilians are going to have to pay up on all the interest they owe," Cohn said. "The real issue is the rescheduling of debt terms. Another question is whether or not the International Monetary Fund can help Brazil with a new austerity program. Stocks of money center banks were mostly down fractions in late dealings. One trader most stocks in the group bounced off their lows by midday as investors took the news in stride. Cohn said the bank stocks may be risky until numbers on non-performing loans are reported for each bank. But he said investors looking ahead six to 12 months might want to buy at present levels for the "tremendous fundamental values" in the group. Analyst Robert Gordon of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc said Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC) has the greatest exposure to Brazilian loans of any New York bank, in terms of percentage of earnings. He said his only two recommendations currently among New York banks are J.P. Morgan and Co <JPM> and Bankers Trust Co <BT> which happen to have the least exposure. Gordon said his positive opinion on J.P. Morgan and Bankers Trust was not merely a response to the fact that the two have lower exposure to Brazilian loans than other banks. In fact he said there's a chance those banks could get more involved in the future. He noted that Morgan has already set up a brokerage subsidiary to deal in loans to less developed countries. "I don't see any reason to change full year earnings estimates, said Frederick Meinke, analyst at E.F. Hutton Co. He thinks the confrontation with Brazil could end in a replay of a situation that occurred with Argentina in 1984 and 1985. Meinke noted that in the case of Argentina the loans became non-accruing for a couple of quarters but then when the banks came to an agreement with Argentina all the back interest was paid. "What it did was distort the quarterly earnings pattern," he said. He said in the case of Brazil write-offs of loans is a worst-case outcome which is highly unlikely. He noted that Brazil is a country with a diversified economy, going through some economic upheaval after the transition from a military to a civilian government. "The countries of Latin America have too much debt relative to their ability to service it," said John Mason of Interstate Securities. "We've been fiddling around with these problems for five years and the hour is growing late." He said up to now the banks have reduced their spreads, cut interest rates internally and extended maturities and none of these measures has been enough. He expects re-classification of as much as a third of the loans as non-accruing and he sees partial write downs of some loans. Nevertheless Mason thinks the money center bank stocks could be poised for a short term rally. A spokesman at First Chicago Corp <FNB> said it is premature to put Brazil's loans on a cash basis. "It is our expectation that economic development will allow Brazil to meet its debt," a spokesman said. Bankers Trust in New York said it would be premature to make a decision. Several other banks queried by Reuters said much the same thing. A spokesman at Manufacturers Hanover noted that of 2.3 billion dlrs in loan exposure to Brazil only 1.3 billion is subject to Brazil's unilateral moratorium on repayment of interest. Reuter 
U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS

The American Meat Institute, AME, said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate against a European Community meat inspection requirement. AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would file a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products. Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards. The meat industry will seek to have the U.S. government retaliate against EC and Korean exports if their complaints are upheld. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 122,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO MEXICO FOR 1986/87



U.S. MEAT GROUP TO FILE TRADE COMPLAINTS

The American Meat Institute, AME, said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate against a European Community meat inspection requirement. AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would file a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products. Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards. Reuter 
CBT TRADERS SAY U.S. CONSERVATION SIGNUP NEUTRAL

The 11,254,837 acres of highly erodable farmland submitted to the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the conservation reserve program was within trade guesses of 10-12 mln and should have an overall neutral impact on grain and soybean prices Monday, grain traders said. Farmers enrolled 1,894,764 acres of corn base acreage in the conservation program to take advantage of a corn bonus rental payment that was offered by the USDA, which may underpin new crop futures, they said. New crop corn prices firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program. But traders noted that the poor yielding acres being set-aside will result in only a modest decrease in final production figures, since farmers will concentrate on high yielding land. Of a total 11,254,837 erodoble acres submitted, usda accepted 10,572,402 acres into the program at an average rental payment of 51.17 dlrs per acre. Farm land signed up to date now totals 19,488,587 acres. Reuter 
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY

Prices of wholesale finished energy goods in the U.S. rose 4.0 pct in February after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said. The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods fell by 20.9 pct in the past 12 months. Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0 pct rise in January, the department said. Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7 pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose 1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January. Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pct January rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. Reuter 
U.S. COTTON CERTIFICATE EXPIRATION DATE EXTENDED

Expiration dates on upland cotton certificates issued under the 1986 upland cotton program are being extended, the Agriculture Department announced. The certificates are being extended because of a shortage of Commodity Credit Corporation inventory available for exchange with certificates, USDA undersecretary Danial Amstutz said. Presently, upland cotton commodity certificates expire nine months from the last day of the month of issuance. Under the new procedure, all current outstanding and all new upland cotton certificates issued under the 1986 upland cotton program will have an expiration date of either February 29, 1988, or nine months from the last day of the month in which the certificate is issued, whichever is later. Reuter 
SUDAN RECEIVES 50 MLN DLRS IN PL480 AUTHORITY

Authorizations to purchase 50 mln dlrs worth of U.S. wheat and wheat flour under Public Law 480 were issued to Sudan today, the Agriculture Department said. The authorization provides for 34 mln dlrs -- about 309,000 tonnes -- worth of wheat, grade U.S. number two or better (except durum which shall be number three or better). It also provides for 16 mln dlrs -- about 73,000 tonnes -- worth of wheat flour. The contracting period for both commodities is March 20 through August 31, 1987. The delivery period for wheat is March 20 through September 30, 1987 and for wheat flour is April 10 through SEptember 30, 1987, USDA said. Reuter 
TRADE BILL TO CHANGE AGRICULTURE TRADE LAWS

The House Ways and Means Committee is moving toward passage of a trade bill that sponsors said was intended to help open foreign markets to U.S. agricultural goods and to modify some U.S. agricultural trade laws. The trade subcommittee voted to require President Reagan to take into account the potential harm to U.S. agricultural exports of any trade retaliation he might impose for foreign unfair trade practices against other domestic industries. The bill would allow U.S. agricultural producers to seek government monitoring of imports if there is a reasonable chance the industry would be harmed by an import surge. The full Ways and Means Committee is to consider the bill next week and congressional sources said they expect it will be approved. In investigations involving a processed agricultural product, trade associations of processors or producers would have to petition for relief from foreign dumping or unfair duties. The bill sets out U.S. trade negotiating objectives for the Uruguay round of talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. It would seek fair trade in agriculture, seek to discipline restrictive or trade distorting import and export practices, to eliminate tariffs, subsidies, quotas and non-tariff barriers. President Reagan's authority to negotiate a new GATT agreement would be extended through January 1993 and authority to negotiate a free trade zone with Canada would be extended through January 3, 1991. The bill extends Reagan's authority to negotiate an international coffee agreement through October 31, 1989. It allows a refund of import duties paid on raw sugar imported from November 1, 1977 to March 31, 1985 for production of sugar or products containing sugar and destined for re-export. The export of the sugar or products must occur before Octoer 1, 1991. Presently, to qualify for the refund the sugar must be processed within three years after import and exported within five years. Agriculture would also benefit from more rapid decisions in complaints of unfair foreign trade practices or injury from imports. Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS RISE 377 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 4 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BUSINESS LOANS RISE 377 MLN DLRS

Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, rose 377 mln dlrs to 279.085 billion dlrs in the week ended March 4, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed said that business loans including acceptances increased 484 mln dlrs to 281.546 billion dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. PRODUCER ENERGY PRICES RISE IN FEBRUARY

Prices of wholesale finished energy goods in the United States were up in February, rising by 4.0 pct after a 9.8 pct rise in January, the Labor Department said. The Producer Price Index for finished energy goods has fallen 20.9 pct in the past 12 months. Heating oil prices rose 3.0 pct in February after a 18.0 pct rise in January, the department said. Gasoline prices rose by 5.5 pct last month after a 15.7 pct January rise, the department said. Natural gas prices rose 1.8 pct after a 4.2 pct rise in January. Energy goods at the intermediate stage of processing rose 2.7 pct in February after rising 3.5 pct in January and were down 16.1 pct over the past 12 months, the Labor Department said. Prices for crude energy goods, such as crude oil, coal and gas at the wellhead, rose 2.6 pct last month after a 10.0 pct January rise. They were down 11.6 pct from February 1986, the department said. At the intermediate stage, liquefied petroleum gas prices rose 10.1 pct last month after a 5.0 pct January rise and were 41.0 pct below prices a year earlier, the department said. Residual fuel prices rose 16.7 pct in February after a 13.4 pct rise a month earlier and were off 17.4 pct in 12 months. Electric power prices fell 0.3 pct last month, after a 1.3 pct January decline, and were down 3.6 pct from a year ago. Crude oil prices rose 4.4 pct in February, after a 19.7 pct January rise and were off 21.3 pct from the year ago level. Prices of natural gas at the wellhead rose 1.8 pct in February after rising 4.2 pct a month earlier and were 14.8 pct lower than they were 12 months earlier, the department said. Coal costs were down 0.3 pct last month after rising 0.4 pct in January and were down 0.8 pct from a year ago. Reuter 
BANK OF AMERICA <BAC> SEEKS TO QUIT PARAGUAY

BankAmerica Corp is seeking a buyer for its branch in Asuncion, Paraguay, a spokesman in Miami for the bank holding company said. "We are in ongoing negotiations for the sale of our Paraguay operations," the spokesman said. He declined to name the possible buyer. A sale of the Paraguayan operations, which employ about 80 people, would be consistent with Bank of America's strategy of concentrating its international efforts on wholesale banking, he added. The bank has sold operations in a number of countries recently, including Italy and Sri Lanka. Reuter 
AFTER G-6, ROUND ONE GOES TO CENTRAL BANKS

Central banks have easily beaten back the foreign exchange market's first test of the industrialized nations' recent pact to stabilize currencies, analysts said. In active trading this week, the market pushed the dollar, sterling, the Canadian dollar and Australian dollar higher. But operators got their fingers burned as one by one the central banks signalled their displeasure. "So far G-6 has been a roaring success,"said James O'Neill, financial markets economist at Marine Midland Bank NA. "The central banks are sending strong signals that they won't tolerate any kind of momentum building behind currencies," added a senior corporate trader at one U.K. bank. On February 22, the finance ministers and central bank governors of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France and the U.K. -- the Group of Five -- plus Canada, signed an accord under which they agreed to cooperate closely to foster stability of exchange rates around prevailing levels. The agreement was viewed by many in the market as an attempt to put a floor under the dollar after its sizeable two-year decline against major world currencies. And initially, traders indicated their respect for the accord by refraining from pushing the dollar lower. But by Wednesday, the dollar climbed to more than 1.87 marks, about five pfennigs above its levels the Friday before the G-6 accord. The move was aided by indications that the U.S. economy picked up steam in February at the same time as the West German economy was regressing. But dealers said the Federal Reserve Bank of New York gave traders a sharp reminder that the G-6 pact had encompassed the idea of limiting inordinate dollar gains as well as declines. Dealers differed as to whether the U.S. central bank actually intervened to sell dollars above 1.87 marks, or simply telephoned dealers to ask for quotes and enquire about trading conditions. But the dollar quickly backed off. It hovered today around 1.85 marks. "The market was surprised that the Fed showed its face so soon," said Marine Midland NA's O'Neill. Also on Wednesday, London dealers said the Bank of England intervened in the open market to sell sterling as the U.K. currency rose to 1.60 dlrs compared with 1.5355 dlrs before the G-6 pact. Sterling, along with the other high-yield currencies like the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, was in favor after traders surmised that the the chance of intervention pursuant to the Paris currency accord left limited room for profit plays on dollar/mark and dollar/yen. The pound also was boosted by suggestions of an improving U.K. economy, anticipation of a popular British budget on March 17 and public opinion polls showing good chances for the incumbent Conservative party in any general election. "There was a real run on sterling," said Anne Mills of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Sterling traded today around 1.5750 dlrs, down from 1.5870 dlrs last night. It slid to 2.917 marks from 2.950 yesterday and from a peak of about 2.98 recently. "There's been some heavy profit-taking on sterling/mark ahead of next Tuesday's U.K. budget," said James McGroarty of Discount Corp. As speculators detected the presence of the U.S. and British central banks, they acclerated their shift into Canadian and Australian dollars. But here too they were stymied. The Bank of Canada acted to slow its currency's rise. The Canadian dollar traded at 1.3218/23 per U.S. dollar today, down from 1.3185/90 yesterday. And the Australian Reserve Bank, using the Fed as agent, sold Australian dollars in the U.S. yesterday, dealers said. The Australian dollar fell to a low of 67.45/55 U.S. cents today from a high of 69.02 Thursday. Analysts said the central banks' moves to stifle sudden upward movement, leave the market uncertain about its next step. Today, the focus shifted to the yen which has held to a very tight range against the dollar for several months. The dollar fell to 152.35/40 yen from 153.35/40 last night. Analysts said the yen also gained as traders unwound long sterling/short mark positions established lately. "Because of the change in perceptions about the health of the German economy, the funds from those unwinding operations are ending up in yen," a dealer at one U.K. bank said. Recent West German data have shown falling industry orders, lower industrial output and slowing employment gains. Moreover, the yen is benefitting as Japanese entities who have invested heavily overseas, for example in Australian financial instruments, repatriate their profits ahead of the end of the Japanese fiscal year on March 31. Noting that the dollar/yen rate is in a sense the most controversial one because of the large U.S. trade deficit with Japan, analysts said the stage could be set for another test of the dollar's downward scope against the Japanese currency. In its latest review of the foreign exchange market through the end of January, the Federal Reserve revealed that it intervened to protect the dollar against the yen on January 28. On that day, the dollar fell as low as 150.40 yen. "Sure, the Fed bought dollars near the 150 yen level in January. But the market has to bear in mind that time marches on and the situation changes," said McGroarty of Discount. Reuter 
U.S. ACTION AGAINST EC MEAT PLAN URGED IN HOUSE

The entire House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry has written U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter a letter urging the Reagan administration to block a European Community, EC, plan to tighten meat inspection requirements. The letter signed by the 16 panel members said the EC plan to require U.S. meat processing plants to comply with EC standards would "impose an unnecessary and unfair hardship on the U.S. meat industry." The EC plan is set to go into effect April 30. "It would be inconceivable that we would allow the EC continued access to the U.S. market while they attempt to halt our meat exports to the EC," the March 9 letter said. Reuter 
NYSE SEES NO PROBLEM ON RULE 390 INTERPRETATION

The New York Stock Exchange sought to defuse a trans-Atlantic flap over whether member firms can trade stocks on London's electronic dealing system during New York trading hours. "I don't know what the hub-bub is about," said Richard Torrenzano, NYSE spokesman. Some member firms had said they were worried that a strict interpretation of NYSE rule 390 curtail trading when London closes its trading floor next year and all trading is done via electronic systems. "If the British Parliament calls it a stock exchange, that's good enough for us," Torrenzano said. Torrenzano did not see any conflict with rule 390 if members wanted to trade in London. The rule, in effect since the mid 1970's, says in part, "During NYSE trading hours a member, a member organization or affiliated person may trade as principal or agent in any listed stock on any organized exchange of which they are a member, in any foreign country at any time." "The rule has not been changed, there is nothing new here," he said. Reuter 
U.S. CONSERVATION FIGURES SEEN NEUTRAL/BEARISH

U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) figures for highly-erodible land enrolled into the Conservation Reserve Program were regarded by most grain analysts as neutral to bearish, although some said a full state-by-state breakdown would be needed to assess the full price impact. "Out of 10.5 mln acres only 1.9 mln acres were accepted in corn -- That's neutral at best and perhaps bearish to what the trade was looking for," Dale Gustafson of Drexel Burnham Lambert said. The USDA said it had accepted 10,572,402 more acres into the conservation program out of bids on a total of 11,254,837 acres. Gustafson said he would not be changing his estimate of planted acreage for corn as a result of the latest figures, but some other analysts said they would adjust their estimates slightly. The USDA is due to release planting intentions figures March 31. Indications of a heavy sign-up in the conservation program recently lowered most trade estimates of corn planted acreage to 63.0 to 67.0 mln acres from 67.0 to 69.0 mln. Richard Loewy, analyst with Prudential Bache Securities, said there was not enough information to completely assess the conservation figures. "The 1.9 mln acres on corn is certainly disappointing," he added. The USDA later released the state-by-state breakdown of the enrollment figures. Loewy said the initial figures appeared to be negative for both new crop corn and soybeans, and might possibly mean an upward adjustment in planting intention figures. Asked about the impact on the flow of generic certificates onto the market this spring, he said: "The trade was definitely looking higher, so certificates are going to be less than expected." The USDA offered a special corn "bonus" rental payment to the farmers to be paid in generic certificates. The bonus amounts to two dlrs per bushel, based on the farm program payment yield for corn, for each acre of corn accepted into the reserve. Katharina Zimmer, analyst for Merrill Lynch Futures, said the conservation sign-up was slightly higher than she had expected, although she noted that some trade expectations were considerably higher than the actual figures. "I think it is friendly for the market, at least in the long run," she said. Susan Hackmann of AgriAnalysis said there was some confusion over whether trade ideas of an enrollment figure between 15 and 18 mln acres referred to the total sign-up or the latest addition. "It seems the trade was looking for more acres to be bid into the program," she said. Hackmann said she would not make much change to her ideas about corn planting figures as a result of the conservation sign-up. She added that while some trade guesses were as low as 61 mln acres, she was looking for corn plantings to be in the high 60's. Zimmer of Merrill Lynch said she would be making a slight reduction of about one mln acres in her planting estimate to around 64 mln acres. New crop corn prices at the Chicago Board of Trade firmed earlier this week on ideas of a large sign-up in the program, despite the fact that acres enrolled are generally poor yielding and not likely to make a substantial difference to final production figures. Reuter 
U.S. SAYS CANADA COMPLYING WITH LUMBER PACT

The Commerce Department said that all Canadian firms had begun to pay an agreed to 15 pct surcharge on softwood shipped to U.S. markets. It made the statement after talks with Canadian officials about press reports and speculation in Canada that some exporters were not paying the charge. Canada and the United States agreed last December to the 15 pct charge, ending a lengthy trade dispute over alleged Canadian subsidies to Canada's softwood exporters. Commerce officials would not say if they found any Canadian companies had been evading the charge, but that following the talks they were convinced all exporters were complying with the agreement. Undersecretary of Commerce Bruce Smart said "We are gratified to learn that companies in Canada have begun paying the export charge on lumber." He added the agreement was important to the health of the U.S. lumber industry and he intended to see that it was fully carried out. reuter 
TRADING RANGE LIKELY TO CONTINUE IN DEBT FUTURES

U.S. economic data due out next week is unlikely to hold any surprises that will shake U.S. interest rate futures out of their relatively narrow trading range of the last 3-1/2 months, financial analysts said. "People don't seem to have any firm conviction about the current strength of the economy or about the Federal Reserve doing anything," said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst Norman Mains. The narrow range trading is also taking its toll on trading volume, he noted. "We've had a decline in activity as recent economic statistics have not greatly changed people's viewpoints on interest rates," Mains said. The data, which has provided not clear-cut view of the economy, coupled with dampened activity in the foreign exchange markets after the Paris initiative has made for "less than ebullient market action," Mains said. He added, however, that Treasury bond futures could be in for a retracement after the recent rise as they are near the top of the trading range. "My view is that the economy remains relatively strong and market participants will see that current prices are unjustified," Mains said. Refco Inc senior vice president Michael Connery also noted that the market is showing very little momentum and lacks retail interest. "All of the movement occurs at the opening," afterwhich volume dwindles and momentum fades, Connery said. Although data during the week was mildly positive for bond prices, the small rise in February producer prices and downward revisions in January retail sales and industrial production were "not real exciting," said Prudential Bache analyst Fred Leiner. "There is no one factor that will push us through the highs at this moment," Leiner said. Next week's revision to fourth quarter U.S. Gross national Product is also likely to be of little interest to the market, said Kleinwort Benson chief financial economist Sam Kahan. Still, forecasts for first quarter GNP could play a role in the direction of bond prices over the next month. Kahan said his early estimate for first quarter growth is around three pct, due largely to a buildup in inventories reflected in the January inventory data Friday, which showed the largest increase since 1979. "The key question will be not whether there is a large increase in first quarter GNP, but whether any increase is sustainable or a one shot deal," Kahan said. He said that a sizable increase in first quarter GNP stemming from an increase in inventories will be a drag on second quarter growth. If that is the case, GNP in the second quarter could ease back to a one to two pct growth rate, Kahan said. Reuter 
MEXICO TEMPORARILY HALTS DEBT-EQUITY SWAPS

Mexico has temporarily suspended its debt-equity swap program in a move that some bankers see as an attempt to increase pressure on reluctant foreign banks to participate in a new 7.7 billion dlr loan for the country. The scheme, which gives foreign firms access to cheap pesos to finance investment in Mexico, is likely to resume soon after the loan package is signed on March 20. But the move is a further indication of the strains that have developed between Mexico and the banks because of the difficulty of syndicating the huge loan, bankers said. Bankers said that Mexico suspended the swap program on February 25. Adolfo Hegewisch, Mexico's Undersecretary for Commerce, confirmed that the swap program had been halted, but he told a Euromoney conference on debt-equity swaps that Mexico had been forced to act because it had been inundated with applications. Between January 1 and February 15, 132 firms had applied to do a debt-equity conversion, compared with 100 between May and December 1986. "We were not accustomed to receive so much work," said Hegewisch, who is responsible for foreign investment in Mexico. Bankers said applications totalling two billion dlrs had piled up at the finance ministry, which has said it wants to limit the amount of swaps to 100 mln dlrs a month. But some bankers, who declined to be identified, said the halt also suited Mexico as it would keep up pressure on the banks during the final campaign to persuade all 400 creditors worldwide to participate in the loan. Over 97 pct of the loan has been subscribed, but dozens of smaller banks are still baulking. Assistant U.S. Treasury Secretary David Mulford said yesterday that the reluctance of these banks had nearly jeopardized the deal at one stage. "The Mexicans basically said, We're not going to subsidize foreigners until we have a deal," one banker said. Other bankers, however, said Mexico's motives were not so sinister and that the suspension was mainly due to the absence of top ministry officials in New York for the debt talks. "They want to focus on the deal, and they wanted the banks to focus on the deal," one source said. Apart from the present disruption, bankers and company officials said the Mexican debt-equity scheme has been a huge success. Frank Fountain, Assistant Treasurer at Chrysler Corp, said a 100 mln dlr swap it made in December had gone so smoothly that Chrysler has plans for more. Chrysler, working through Manufacturters Hanover Trust Co, bought Mexican public-sector debt with a face value of 110 mln dlrs, mainly from European banks. The cost was about 65 mln dlrs in cash and paper. It then presented the paper to Mexico's central bank and received the equivalent of 100 mln dlrs worth of pesos which it invested in its local subsidiary to produce cars for export to North America. Susan Segal, senior vice president of Manufacturers Hanover, said the swaps not only reduce Mexico's debt burden but help to recapitalize local industries that may have been squeezed out of the local capital markets. Fountain said that even a large well-established firm such as Chrysler had found it difficult to arrange long-term peso financing on reasonable terms in Mexico. Industrial companies have done most of the swaps to date, and Hegewisch said that many of the applications now pending are for investments in the electronic and chemical industries, with Japanese and Korean firms showing particular interest. But the interest is spreading. Segal said Manufacturers Hanover has been authorized to convert part of its own portfolio of loans into equity investment in Mexican hotels. She said the sums involved are considerable, but gave no details. The bank is also looking into joint ventures with manufacturing and trading companies, Segal added. And, as part of the agreement with the banks that will be signed next week, Mexican residents will be allowed to participate in the scheme, hitherto reserved for foreign firms, in the hope that some of the 30 billion dlrs estimated to be held abroad will be repatriated. Reuter 
 U.S. SAYS CANADA COMPLYING WITH LUMBER PACT

The Commerce Department said all Canadian firms have begun to pay an agreed 15 pct surcharge on softwood shipped to U.S. markets. It made the statement after talks with Canadian officials about rumors in Canada that some exporters were not paying the charge. Canada and the U.S. agreed last December to the 15 pct charge, ending a lengthy trade dispute over alleged Canadian subsidies to Canada's softwood exporters. Commerce officials declined to say if any Canadian companies had been evading the charge, but said following the talks they were convinced all exporters were complying with the agreement. Undersecretary of Commerce Bruce Smart said "We are gratified to learn that companies in Canada have begun paying the export charge on lumber." He added the agreement was important to the health of the U.S. lumber industry and he intended to see that it was fully carried out. reuter 
IRAN HAS ANTI-SHIP MISSILES NEAR GULF - PAPER

Iran has deployed about six large missiles near the Strait of Hormuz which increase the threat to shipping in the Gulf, the New York Times said. The paper quoted U.S. Intelligence sources as saying the missiles appeared to be of a Chinese design known as HY-2 which is based on the Soviet SSN2 or Styx missile. Styx missiles have a range of up to 50 miles. It said the missiles had been deployed at two sites and quoted a naval analyst as saying they could be used to sink a supertanker and block the Strait of Hormuz. Missiles now used by Iran had only a fraction of the explosive power of the Styx and could sink a supertanker only with a lucky hit, the paper said. None of the new missiles had been fired yet, it added. The CBS television network reported on Friday that Iran had installed new missiles along the Gulf and said Washington had warned Tehran not to use them against civilian shipping. REUTER 
REAGAN SAYS HE WRONG IN SELLING ARMS TO IRAN

President Reagan for the first time admitted he was wrong to sell arms to Iran in an initiative which four months ago plunged him into the worst crisis of his six-year-old presidency. He made the admission in a weekly radio address while defending the role played by Secretary of State George Shultz and Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger in the affair. He said: "In the case of the Iranian arms sale matter, both Secretary Shultz and Secretary Weinberger advised me strongly not to pursue the initiative. I weighed their advice but decided in the end the initiative was worth the risk and went forward." "As we now know, it turned out they were right and I was wrong. But they discharged their responsibilities as my advisers and as my subordinates," he said. Since the scandal broke last November, Shultz and Weinberger have said they told Reagan of their opposition to the deal and were not fully informed of the effort, carried out by National Security Council members. They also said they were unaware of the diversion of millions of dollars in profits from the arms sales to the Nicaraguan contra rebels, who have been fighting the leftist Managua government for six years. REUTER 
BALDRIGE WARNS OF WORLD TRADE WAR DANGER

U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted Congress will pass a reasonable trade bill this year and said tough protectionist legislation could prompt a trade war. "The mood of the Congress right now is as tough on trade as I've ever seen it in six years in Washington," Baldrige said in a television interview. "I think we'll still be able to get a reasonable trade bill out in spite of that because the whole Congress is trying to work together with the administration, but there is a hardening trade attitude," he said. President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation, but agreed to support a trade bill when it became apparent that opposition Democrats would pass such legislation. However, Baldrige warned measures that would penalise trading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan for failing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. Could lead to retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto any such bill. When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide trade war, Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any question about that." REUTER 
TENSE TRADE TIES TO DOMINATE EC TALKS

Tense trade relations with the U.S. And Japan and concern about the foreign impact of a proposed European Community (EC) tax on edible oils and fats are expected to dominate talks by EC foreign ministers here tomorrow. EC diplomats said Britain demanded the early debate on the EC Executive Commission's proposal to impose a hefty tax on domestic and imported oils and fats in an attempt to head off a proposal it sees as extremely damaging to EC foreign relations. The proposal was the most controversial part of a reform package, due to be discussed by EC farm ministers later this month, of the EC's Common Agricultural Policy -- widely seen as the root cause of the EC's persistent financial problems and of tensions with major trading partners. The proposal is described by its promoters as a stabilisation program which would penalise a new sector going into massive overproduction and complement proposals to cut cereals and dairy production, rather than a straight forward tax. They say it would not only curb the growth of oils and fats production and prevent imports from filling any vaccum left by a fall in EC output, but would also save the EC some two billion European Currency Units, over two billion dlrs, in farm costs. It has provoked strong protests from domestic producers as well as foreign exporters, led by the United States. The diplomats said the protests had been received from most corners of the developing and developed world, ranging from Senegal, Malaysia and Indonesia, to Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Iceland and Norway. The proposal had little chance of approval by EC governments, with West Germany as strongly opposed to it as Britain, and Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal also unconvinced of its political or economic wisdom. Even Mediterranean countries such as Italy, France and Greece, which backed similar proposals in the past, did not seem as enthusiastic now because olive oil had been added to the list of products affected. But the diplomats said a protectionist lobby in the U.S. And elsewhere was using the proposal as an excuse to promote anti-EC action, and the foreign ministers' debate should demonstrate the strength of feeling against the proposal within the EC and deprive its oponents of this argument. The ministers were also due to discuss proposals in the U.S. Congress for a range of protecionist legislation such as a bill that would curb EC textile exports. The diplomats said the ministers were expected to strongly back a Commission warning to Washington that such a bill, if enacted, would provoke swift EC retaliation. REUTER 
LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL

Leading industrial nations will meet again next month to review their accord on currency stability, but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for now the countries will live up to commitments to speed up economic growth. The narrow currency movements of recent weeks strongly suggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed the normally unruly financial markets and next month's talks seem likely to build on that stability. A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreement last month was the main reason markets were calm. But he said in an interview that financial markets also understood, "That all six countries concluded that the measures to be taken over a period of time in the future should foster stability of exchange rates around current levels. That is in fact what has happened since Paris." Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part by the decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet and cease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives. Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, but left room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings. The official refused to comment, however, on whether the agreement included a secret pact to consider further coordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nations have taken jointly several times in the past year. On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies were within ranges broadly reflecting underlying economic conditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budget deficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth. The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position in future international talks. "I think these changes will strengthen the President's hand politically and the stronger he is politically the better off we are with the Congress and the better off we are in international fora," said the official, an Administration economic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to the continued conduct of our initiatives." But the official also said the Administration would resist calls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a target Europeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability. Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened to stop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached 1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood to have intervened to curb sterling's strength. International monetary sources say finance ministers and central bankers, who will review market performance and their own economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washington just before the April 9 policymaking meeting of the International Monetary Fund. The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Paris pact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker. Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing, while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April to show that an economic stimulus package was in the offing. Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recently when Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl told bankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates if the Fed was ready to follow suit. A Reagan Administration official said this would show there had been some change in approach on the part of the central bank in Germany. But he declined to comment on the prospects for action by the Fed and the Bundesbank. "If there is such a provision it is private and if I talked about it, it would no longer be private," said the official, who asked not to be identified. Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bank is keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if the major economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S. Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinated action could be on the April agenda. REUTER... 
TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE

The United States wants Taiwan's currency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S., A senior trade official said. Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporters on Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last week that unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it would face retaliation. Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.S responded to Taiwan's request to increase its textile export quotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus with the U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986. Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last year limiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year. Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985. It surged last week amid indications Washington was seeking a major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S. Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59. Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Have been holding talks on the currency issue but added it is not clear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER 
PARIBAS SEEKING TO ADJUST ECUADOR OIL FACILITY

Banque Paribas, which arranged a 220 mln dlr loan for Ecuador last year to pre-finance oil exports, wants to adjust the terms of the facility to help the country recover from a devastating earthquake, bankers said. But the French bank's plan, which would effectively postpone repayment of about 30 mln dlrs of the loan for several months, is running into stiff resistance from many of the 52 members of the loan syndicate. The pipeline that carries all Ecuador's oil exports was ruptured in the March 5 tremor and will take some five months to repair at a cost of about 150 mln dlrs to repair. President Leon Febres Cordero on Friday estimated total damages caused by the quake at one billion dlrs and said that Ecuador as a result would maintain January's suspension of interest payments on its foreign commercial bank debt. Payments were halted in January because of the drop in the price of oil, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of Ecuador's export earnings and 60 pct of government revenue. Although sympathetic to Ecuador's plight, many banks in the Paribas facility feel that emergency financial relief is a job for international financial organizations and not for commercial banks, bankers said. The 18-month oil-financing facility, which was signed last October 28, is one of the few purely voluntary credits for a Latin American nation since the region's debt crisis erupted in August 1982. Because it was a voluntary deal, many bankers feel strongly that the orginal terms must be adhered to. Otherwise, they fear, the gradual re-establishment of normal market conditions for Latin borrowers will be set back. "There's a lot of reluctance by the other banks. They feel it's a different facility, and so any kind of suggestion of a restructuring would look bad," one banker commented. Reuter 
TAIWAN SAYS U.S. WANTS TAIWAN DOLLAR TO APPRECIATE

The United States wants Taiwan's currency to appreciate faster to reduce Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S., A senior trade official said. Board of Foreign Trade director Vincent Siew told reporters on Saturday U.S. Officials told him in Washington last week that unless Taiwan allowed its dollar to rise faster it would face retaliation. Siew returned from Washington on Friday after the U.S responded to Taiwan's request to increase its textile export quotas by promising further talks in May. Taiwan's surplus with the U.S. Hit a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986. Washington signed a three-year accord with Taipei last year limiting textile export growth to 0.5 pct a year. Siew said the Taiwan dollar had risen by about 15 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985. It surged last week amid indications Washington was seeking a major rise in its value. It rose four cents against the U.S. Dollar on Saturday to close at 34.59. Western trade sources told Reuters Taiwan and the U.S. Have been holding talks on the currency issue but added it is not clear how far Washington wants to see the Taiwan dollar rise. REUTER 
BALDRIGE WARNS OF WORLD TRADE WAR DANGER

U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted Congress will pass a reasonable trade bill this year and said tough protectionist legislation could prompt a trade war. "The mood of the Congress right now is as tough on trade as I've ever seen it in six years in Washington," Baldrige said in a weekend television interview. "I think we'll still be able to get a reasonable trade bill out in spite of that because the whole Congress is trying to work together with the administration, but there is a hardening trade attitude," he said. President Reagan opposes protectionist legislation but agreed to support a trade bill when it became apparent that opposition Democrats would pass such legislation. However, Baldrige warned measures that would penalize trading partners such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan for failing to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. could lead to retaliation and he said he would urge Reagan to veto any such bill. When asked if there is a rising danger of a worldwide trade war, Baldrige said: "Yes, I don't think there's any question about that." Reuter 
LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL

Leading industrial nations will meet again next month to review their accord on currency stability, but U.S. Officials said financial markets are convinced for now the countries will live up to commitments to speed up economic growth. The narrow currency movements of recent weeks strongly suggests the six leading industrial countries have tamed the normally unruly financial markets and next month's talks seem likely to build on that stability. A Reagan administration official said the Paris agreement last month was the main reason markets were calm. But he said in an interview that financial markets also understood, "That all six countries concluded that the measures to be taken over a period of time in the future should foster stability of exchange rates around current levels. That is in fact what has happened since Paris." Monetary analysts said stability has been helped in part by the decision of industrial nations to bury the hatchet and cease to quarrel over short-term policy objectives. Instead they have focused on medium-term policy goals, but left room to adjust their agreements with periodic meetings. The official refused to comment, however, on whether the agreement included a secret pact to consider further coordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nations have taken jointly several times in the past year. On February 22, the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies were within ranges broadly reflecting underlying economic conditions, given commitments by Washington to cut its budget deficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth. The shake-up would strengthen the U.S. Position in future international talks. "I think these changes will strengthen the President's hand politically and the stronger he is politically the better off we are with the Congress and the better off we are in international fora," said the official, an Administration economic policymaker. "So it would be beneficial to the continued conduct of our initiatives." But the official also said the Administration would resist calls for a tax increase to cut the budget deficit -- a target Europeans say is crucial to help curb economic instability. Currency analysts believe the Paris agreement set secret short-term target ranges for their currencies with a specific agreement to defend those bands with intervention. According to market sources, the ranges agreed were 1.60 to 1.90 marks to the dollar, and 140 to 155 yen to the dollar. There is no official confirmation that specific bands were set, although the agreement used the term "ranges", for the first time in an international economic agreement. The Paris accord stated the six would cooperate closely to foster currency stability around current levels. Last week, dealers said the Federal Reserve intervened to stop the dollar rising against the mark, which had breached 1.86 to the dollar. British authorities are also understood to have intervened to curb sterling's strength. International monetary sources say finance ministers and central bankers, who will review market performance and their own economic prospects, will reassemble again in Washington just before the April 9 policymaking meeting of the International Monetary Fund. The sources said Italy, which refused to join the Paris pact, was invited back by Treasury Secretary James Baker. Since Paris, there are signs West German growth is slowing, while U.S. Officials said they were giving Japan until April to show that an economic stimulus package was in the offing. Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recently when Bundesbank (central bank) president Karl Otto Poehl told bankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates if the Fed was ready to follow suit. A Reagan Administration official said this would show there had been some change in approach on the part of the central bank in Germany. But he declined to comment on the prospects for action by the Fed and the Bundesbank. "If there is such a provision it is private and if I talked about it, it would no longer be private," said the official, who asked not to be identified. Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bank is keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged, but if the major economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U.S. Trade deficit remains stubbornly high, further coordinated action could be on the April agenda. REUTER 
PHILIPPINES' ONGPIN OPTIMISTIC ON DEBT TALKS

Philippines finance minister Jaime Ongpin said he was cautiously optimistic an accord on debt rescheduling would be reached with commercial bank creditors, as he prepared for the third week of talks starting Monday. "One can never be too optimistic, but I'm cautiously optimistic that we can get an agreement....We think we're close to a deal," Ongpin told Reuters by telephone. He said he had received a new proposal from the banks late Friday and had spent the weekend evaluating it with other members of the Philippine delegation. Ongpin declined to disclose details of the banks' new offer and bankers also declined to be specific ahead of their next meeting with Ongpin on Monday. But one senior banker said he too was guardedly optimistic a deal could be struck, possibly by the end of the week. Still at the heart of the talks is Ongpin's offer to pay part of the country's interest bill in Philippine Investment Notes, PINs, instead of cash. The bank creditors' advisory committee led by Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co rejected the concept as it was originally drafted, but the counter-proposal made on Friday contains a revised version, bankers said. Manila, seeking to reschedule 9.4 billion dlrs of its total debt of 27.2 billion, wants to pay the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) in cash and a margin above LIBOR in PINs. These dollar-denominated notes would be sold by banks at a discount to multi-national firms which would then convert them at face value with the central bank, thus receiving subsidized pesos for use in funding government-approved investments. Effectively foreign companies would be paying the interest margin above LIBOR. The Philippines would conserve foreign exchange and enjoy investment inflows, reducing marginally the need to seek new bank loans. But the banks rejected the PINs proposal in its original form, fearing regulatory and accounting problems. They were also reluctant to veer from the principle that interest should be paid in cash not paper, fearing that other debtor nations would emulate the idea, bankers said. Ongpin sweetened his original offer by guaranteeing that his government would redeem the notes at 7/8 pct over LIBOR if there was no buyer in the secondary market. Last week the banks came under pressure to accept this, when senior U.S. Officials endorsed it as fully consistent with Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt strategy. But banking sources said that the margin over LIBOR was still a sticking point. After Venezuela clinched a revised rescheduling agreement last month at 7/8 pct over LIBOR, some New York bankers imediately claimed that 7/8 pct should be seen as a new benchmark for a debtor that needs no new loans, is current on interest and is repaying some principal. The Philippines meets the first two criteria but not the third. REUTER 
LOS ANGELES SECURITIES <LSGA> TO STAY ON NASDAQ

Los Angeles Securities Group said the <National Association of Securities Dealers> has decided not to delist its securities from the NASDAQ system for now, as it had threatened. The company said the NASD has granted it an undetermined period of time to resolve issues raised by the NASD on market-making in its own common stock. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 302,000 head versus 293,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 123,000 to 126,000 head versus 123,000 week ago and 121,000 a year ago. Reuter 
PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER

U.S. roastings of green coffee in the week ended March 7 were about 325,000 (60-kilo) bags, including that used for soluble production, compared with 290,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about 315,000 bags in the week ended February 28, George Gordon Paton and Co Inc reported. It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total a 3,295,000 bags, compared with 3,620,000 bags by this time last year. Reuter 
LYNG SAYS TOO LATE FOR CROP DECOUPLING THIS YEAR

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said it is too late to implement a full 0/92 acreage provision, or "decoupling," for 1987 grain crops. "I think there's a chance we'll see that legislation (0/92) passed, (but) not for 1987 crops. It's too late," Lyng told the National Grain and Feed Association convention here. Lyng added that there seems some support in Congress for 0/92 and there was a good chance a pilot 0/92 program will be passed as part of a pending disaster bill. But he indicated that it is already too late in the year to alter the 1987 crop program. Sign-up for spring crops closes the end of this month. Overall, Lyng predicted very little change will be legislated in the 1985 farm bill this year. Reuter 
CME, CBOE SET JOINT PRESS CONFERENCE FOR TODAY

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange, CME, will hold a joint news conference at 1200 CST (1800 GMT) today. Neither exchange would elaborate on the topic of the press conference, although a CBOE spokesperson said it will deal a new financial product. Reuter 
WEST GERMAN EXPORTS TO U.S. DROP SHARPLY

West German exports to the United States fell below four billion marks worth in January for the first time since mid-1984, provisional Bundesbank data showed. The figures showed exports were 3.85 billion marks in January, sharply down from December's 4.40 billion and the lowest since the 3.56 billion exported to the U.S. In July 1984. This compared with 4.86 billion marks in January 1986. Total West German exports to Western industrialised countries also fell in January to 34.76 billion marks from December's 36.45 billion, also posting the lowest monthly total since July 1984. West German exports to the European Community were 21.60 billion marks in January, down from 22.14 billion in December and 22.94 billion in January last year, the figures showed. Exports to developing nations and centrally-planned economies also slackened. Separately, Commerzbank AG said in a report that the focus of West German exports this year was likely to shift to Europe because of an expected downturn in growth in the dollar area. This was one of the strengths of West German exports compared with Japan, which depended in large part on the U.S., OPEC and developing country markets, it added. REUTER 
TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR FIGHT IN U.S. CONGRESS

U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for a showdown between protectionists and free traders as a major trade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by the full House of Representatives in late April. In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a key House subcommittee last week approved a toned down version of legislation to require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign countries that follow unfair trade practices. This bill will be the cornerstone of congressional efforts to restore competitiveness of American industries and turn around last year's record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit. Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made too many concessions to Reagan and said they intend to back amendments to "get tough" with countries that violate trade agreements or keep out U.S. products. On the other hand, congressmen known for their allegiance to free trade, said the bill ties Reagan's hands too much in trade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiating powers. Republican Bill Frenzel of Michigan said the subcommittee's bill was not one "that a free trader like me could endorse in all respects," but he emphasized there was a consensus among trade lawmakers to work toward a bill Reagan and Republicans would ultimately endorse. Frenzel said the goal of trade legislation was, "to make our trade policy stronger without violating our international trade agreements. You'll find a lot of people who think we have not done the former enough. You'll find poeple who think we haven't avoided violating agreements." In a key concession made at the urging of the powerful chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, the trade subcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forced Reagan to automatically impose quotas or tariffs on imports from countries that engage in unfair trade practices. It also agreed he may waive any retaliation if it would hurt the U.S. economy. Ways and Means chairman Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat, insisted the more moderate approach was necessary if the House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would sign into law. Reagan last year had blocked Senate consideration of a tough House trade bill he branded as protectionist and this year only reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he saw Democratic leaders were determined to pass a bill. As an indication of his success, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters Friday the administration still did not like some provisions. But he added, "Generally we feel very good about the bipartisan consideration of the trade legislation. I think we are progressing very well." The first battle will take place next week when the full House Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep. Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, to force countries such as Japan, South Korea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluses with the United States. The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide only that the existence of a large trade surplus with the United States will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices, but would not automatically set off retaliation. Rep. Phil Crane, an Illinois Republican and staunch free trader, said he will try to further weaken the Gephardt plan. Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief from imports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition. AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered the administration in a statement that any trade bill Reagan would sign would not be worth passage in Congress. But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate in a statement, "I'm not trying to write legislation to please Lane Kirkland. I'm trying to write legislation that will be signed by the president." In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls for trade relief for specific industries such as textiles. Rep. Ed Jenkins, a Democrat from Georgia, agreed to hold off his fight. He intends to push separately a bill to protect the domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reagan vetoed a similar measure last year. House Speaker Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, is one of the most influential proponents of aid for specific industries beset by low priced foreign competition. Wright Thursday renewed his call for import relief for the domestic oil industry and announced his support for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil import tariff when imports reach half of domestic consumption. For the most part, the trade bill's provisions toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws. The bill forces the administration to act rapidly on complaints of unfair trade practices such as dumping products in the United States at prices below the cost of production. It also forces the administration to act rapidly when an industry complains that a surge in imports threatens its existence. Congressmen said the change would have required the U.S. International Trade Commission to impose limits on car imports in 1981. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS WHEAT BID FOR W AFRICA COUNTRIES

The Commodity Credit Corportion, CCC, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 15,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat to West African countries, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The dark northern spring wheat is for shipment May 15-June 15, 1987. The bonus of 40.05 dlrs per tonne was made to Peavey Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory, it said. An additional 315,500 tonnes of wheat are still available to West African countries under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced October 30, 1986, it said. Reuter 
U.S. SOY PRODUCERS THINK EC OILS TAX UNLIKELY

American soybean producers are confident the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats will be rejected but are leaving nothing to chance, American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said. Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean producer delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, was speaking at a lunch. After meetings at the Economics and Foreign ministries this morning, he said the Dutch Government had indicated it would vote against the proposal, as had a number of other countries. "Our information suggests we will have the required number of votes in Brussels to prevent the tax proposal going forward," he said. "The proposal has been talked of in Brussels for the past 20 years, and dropped every time. What we want now is to kill it once and for all," Bennett added. Backing up the soybean producers' active lobbying, the U.S. Government has also indicated it will be prepared to retaliate with penal import taxes if the proposal does get through, he said. The U.S. Government also feels it has a good case to fight the proposed tax in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), a U.S. Embassy spokesman said. U.S. Exports of soybeans and products to the EC account for one-fifth of annual production, and are worth about 2.5 billion dlrs a year, Bennett said. The proposed tax on oils and fats would hit U.S. Producers badly while at the same time virtually doubling the price of soyoil in the EC, which would suffer far worse than other higher-priced oils because of the nature of the proposed tax, he added. The revenue to the EC from the tax would simply be used to finance the EC's own oilseed subsidy machine, he said. "We in the ASA are dedicated free-traders. We helped defeat the Wine Equity Act two years ago, but we will not stand by and watch our own farmers suffer from such protectionist EC measures," Bennett said. "The mood in the U.S. Is turning increasingly protectionist, and the EC's actions are fueling the chances of a trade war," he added. Reuter 
AMEX ADDS WYSE TECHNOLOGY <WYSE> OPTIONS

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has started put and call option trading in the common stock of Wyse Technology, with initial expiration months of April, July and October and position and exercise limits of 5,500 contracts on the same side of the market. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BID FOR DAIRY CATTLE TO KUWAIT

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 380 head of dairy cattle to Kuwait, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The dairy cattle are for shipment on or before May 31, 1987, it said. The bonus of 1,465.00 dlrs per head was made to American Marketing Services, Inc, and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory, it said. An additional 761 head of dairy cattle are still available to Gulf countries (kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced October 30, 1986, it said. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add reserves via two to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, economists said. Economists said the Fed will inject temporary reserves indirectly to offset pressure on the Federal funds rate associated with quarterly corporate tax payments to the Treasury department. Fed funds opened at 6-1/4 pct and remained at that level late this morning. Friday funds averaged 6.05 pct. Reuter 
IRAN PROBERS AGREE ON IMMUNITY FOR POINDEXTER

Congressional investigators of the Iran-contra scandal have tentatively agreed to grant immunity from prosecution to a star witness --President Reagan's former national security adviser John Poindexter, congressional sources said today. Sources told Reuters the chief counsels of the two special committees probing the two-year episode that has darkened the White House image plan to take their preliminary accord to court-appointed special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, possibly today or tomorrow. The tentative accord follows weeks of negotiating with Walsh and with committee members. Poindexter would be the highest ranking official to be granted immunity in the investigations of the 1985-1986 arms sales to Iran to gain release of hostages held in Lebanon and the clandestine shifting of arms profits to arm U.S.-backed rebels in Nicaragua, at a time aid would have been illegal. If the agreement --reached on Friday by Arthur Liman and John Nields, chief legal advisors of the Senate and House committees respectively --is ratified as expected by Walsh and the full committees, closed door interviews could be held with Poindexter in two months with public testimony in about 90 days or mid June, sources said. "They have tentatively reached an agreement and are supposed to meet with Walsh or his deputies," a source told Reuters of the deliberations by the two chief counsels Sources said Poindexter could assist investigators determine what Reagan knew about the diversion of funds from arms sales to Iran to rebels in Nicaragua, if anything. Reagan has denied knowing about the shift of funds although he has admitted he gave orders to sell arms through Israel in either August or after the first shipment in September 1985, but can't remember when. Congress was kept in the dark about the affair until last autumn. "He will be a credible witness," one source said of the pipe-smoking Poindexter. Besides Reagan's knowledge, or lack of it, another key unanswered questions lingering from earlier congressional investigators and a special presidential review board, is who received millions of dollars from clandestine arms profits. So far the money trail uncovered by probers stops at secret Swiss and Cayman Islands bank accounts. The committees have been privately negotiating with Walsh over the immunity matter, and the prosecutor, also called an independent counsel, has been urging the committees to hold off on their request for at least 90 days. Under the tentative accord, the wishes of Walsh could be met since public testimony is not expected before 90 days. Poindexter, a Navy vice admiral, along with his fired deputy at the National Security Council, Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North, have refused to testify before investigators, claiming their fifth amendment rights against self incrimination. Yesterday, Vice President George Bush said in a a television interview that he disagreed with Maureen about court martials, but he too disclaimed any details of diverted funds. So far, granting immunity to compel testimony from reluctant witnesses has been granted to five persons--with the key figure so far, shadowy California international arms merchant Albert Hakim. Also, getting immunity has been North's attractive personal secretary, Fawn Hall, who was said to have assisted North in shredding documents in his White House basement office after the scandal broke. Reuter 
EEP SHOULD BE USED TACTICALLY, YEUTTER SAYS

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, should be used as a "tactical tool" and not as a general policy. Yeutter made the comment in response to a question whether the U.S. should expand the EEP to cover grain sales to the Soviet Union. He did not comment directly on the Soviet question, replying that any decision would be made at the highest levels of the Reagan administration, and "I don't want to preempt that." Yeutter told the National Grain and Feed Association EEP should continue to be used as a tactical tool against the European Community but not as a general policy. He said selective EEP use has been successful in pressuring the E.C. Reuter 
HOECHST CELANESE SETS EXPANSION PROGRAM

Hoechst AG's <HFAG.F> U.S. unit, Hoechst Celanese Corp, said it has begun projects that will cost more than 150 mln dlrs. The unit was formed last month when Hoechst completed the acquisition of Celanese for 2.84 billion dlrs. The company said it will expand its Sanwet super absorbent polymers unit and its acrylic acid facility. It also said it plans an acetaminophen production plant at Bishop, Texas. Reuter 
S/P DOWNGRADES KINGDOM OF DENMARK

Standard and Poor's Corp said it downgraded to AA from AA-plus the Kingdom of Denmark's long-term external debt. The action affects the equivalent of 17.6 billion U.S. dlrs of debt. S and P cited Denmark's weakened external competitiveness, saying it contributed to a steady deterioration of the country's current account balance and a substantial rise in its external debt burden. Net foreign debt increased to 129 pct of total exports in 1986 from 83 pct in 1983, S and P pointed out. Standard and Poor's said that while it expects lower imports and current account imbalances this year, rising labor costs should further weaken Denmark's competitiveness. However, S and P said its downgrade did not affect the A-1-plus short-term debt rating of Denmark or its wholly owned Danish Oil and Natural Gas. Similarly, the AA ratings on the long-term debt obligations of Copenhagen County Authority and I/S Elsam were affirmed. Reuter 
UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT

Members of the United Food and Commercial Workers union, UFCW, local 222 voted Sunday to go on strike against Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Nebraska, plant, effective Tuesday. The company submitted their latest offer to the union at the same time announcing that they would end the lockout as of tomorrow that started December 14. Members unanimously rejected the latest company offer that was submitted to the union late last week. An overwhelming majority of the approximately 2,500 members attending the meeting then voted to go on strike, UFCW union spokesman Allen Zack said. Zack said the company's offer for a cut in wages was unacceptable and said IBP was refusing to bargain in good faith. IBP's latest offer included wage cuts of 60 cents an hour for slaughter operations and a 45 cents an hour cut in pay for processing workers. The cut follows the 1.07 dlr cut in pay workers received in 1982 and the wage freeze that has lasted since then, Zack said. The offer also eliminated overtime after eight hours following the normal 40 hour work week, he added. Reuter 
U.S. INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY USE RATE ROSE TO 79.8 PCT IN FEB FROM 79.6 PCT IN JAN



AROUND 3.5 MLN ACRES SAID TO BE IDLED BY 0/92

A 0/92 program would have very little impact on U.S. acreage, prompting farmers to idle only an additional 3.5 mln acres of cropland every year, according to a report from the Agriculture Department. The savings resulting from the additional 3.5 mln acres idled would be a little over 400 mln dlrs in loan savings, 35 mln dlrs in transportation and storage savings, and 10-20 mln dlrs per year in deficiency payment savings, the report said. The USDA report asssessed the impacts of the proposed 0/92 acreage program for wheat, corn, cotton, sorghum and barley. Last year, almost 245 mln acres of those crops were harvested. "The likelihood that the 0-92 provisiion will cause very large acreages to be removed from crop production is quite small," the report said. "The returns on typical farms still favor participation in the usual acreage reduction programs and seeding the permitted acreage," the USDA report said. The 0/92 program, which would allow farmers to forego planting and still receive 92 pct of their deficiency payment, would be most used by producers in high production/high risk areas where cost of production is high, said Keith Collins, director of USDA's economics analysis staff. "In the heart of the corn belt, you would not get that much participation," Collins said. USDA estimated that an additional one mln acres of wheat would be ildled under 0/92, 1.5 mln acres of corn, 500,000 acres of sorghum and barley and 500,000 acres of cotton. Production from these idled acres would be equivalent to 40 mln bushels of wheat, 180 mln bushels of corn, 20 mln bushels of sorghum, 10 mln bushels of barley, and 500,000 bales of cotton, the report said. "In determining whether to participate, a producer would need to weigh the expected cash costs of production against the loan rate ... The risk that market prices may rise above the expected levels and reduce the deficiency payment also must be considered," according to the analysis. "What you're giving up under 0/92 is the difference between the loan rate and the cost of production," Collins said. For producers with low production costs, that difference is greater and can be applied to paying variable costs, he said. Under these cicumstances, farmers would not want to go along with 0/92. But for high cost producers, 0/92 would be more attractive. Also, as loan rates get lower, Collins said there would be more incentives to participate in a 0/92 program. "I would admit that its impacts would be very marginal at first, but it is a step towards the goal of separating production decisions from government payments," Collins said. In a speech earlier today before the National Grains and Feed Association, USDA Secretary Richard Lyng said it is too late to implement 0/92 for 1987 crops since program signup will be over by the end of this month. Reuter 
CANADA PRIME MINISTER SAYS A MAJOR TRADE DEAL EMERGING WITH U.S.



U.S. CAPACITY USE RATE 79.8 PCT IN FEBRUARY

U.S. factories, mines and utilities operated at 79.8 pct of capacity in February, compared with a revised 79.6 pct in January and December, the Federal reserve Board said. The Fed previously said the rate was 79.7 pct in January and 79.5 pct in December. A surge in automobile assemblies in February and a gain in primary metals production helped raise manufacturing to 80.1 pct capacity from 79.9 pct in January. Durables manufacturing increased to 76.8 pct last month from 76.3 pct in January, the Fed said. Nondurable manufacturing eased to 85.2 pct of capacity use from 85.4 pct in January. Last month's rate was down from 80.2 pct in February, 1986. Fabricated metals increased to 81.4 pct in February from 81.2 pct in January, while motor vehicles and parts jumped to 83.6 pct from 80.0 in January. Primary metals rose to 67.7 pct from 66.7 pct in January. Petroleum products fell to 92.5 pct in February from 94.5 pct in January. Capacity utilization for mining rose to 75.3 pct in February from 75.1 pct in January, but was below the February 1986 rate of 79.4 pct, the Fed said. The use rate for utilities was up to 80.8 pct last month from 80.4 pct in January. Producers of industrial materials operated at 78.9 pct of capacity, the same as in January and December, but down from the February 1986 rate of 79.6 pct. The Fed said the decline in energy materials use and durables goods materials were the reason for the decline over the past year for producers of industrial materials. Reuter 
UNION VOTES TO STRIKE DAKOTA CITY IBP PLANT

The United Food and Commercial Workers union, Local 222 said its members voted Sunday to strike the Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Neb., plant, effective Tuesday. The company said it submitted its latest offer to the union at the same time announcing that on Tuesday it would end a lockout that started December 14. Union members unanimously rejected the latest company offer that was submitted to the union late last week, UFCW union spokesman Allen Zack said. Reuter 
CSCE TO PUT ADDITIONAL MARGIN ON JULY COCOA

A 250 dlr spot charge will be added to the New York cocoa futures, July delivery, contract starting Wednesday, March 18, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said. The March delivery ceases trading March 17, making May and July the two nearby unlimited positions. Previously, March and May were unlimited. The margin requirement for a May or July position will be 1,000 dlrs--750 dlrs original margin plus 250 dlrs spot fee. Reuter 
CHEYENNE SOFTWARE <CHEY> TO ISSUE NEWS RELEASE

Cheyenne Software Inc, whose stock has been halted on NASDAQ, said it will issue a news release soon. The company declined to comment on the nature of the news release. Reuter 
YEUTTER REPEATS RETALIATION THREAT ON EC OIL TAX

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the United States will retaliate if the European Community adopts a proposed tax on vegetable oils, but he did not say what EC products would be singled-out for reprisal. Speaking to the National Grain and Feed Association (NGFA) convention here, Yeutter said he is "cautiously optimistic" the controversial oils tax proposal will be rejected by the EC Council of Ministers. Yeutter said the proposed tax is a "flagrant violation of the spirit of GATT" because it would imperil the zero binding duty on U.S. exports of soybeans to Europe. He said the Reagan administration has yet to decide on a retaliation list. The administration would not reveal a retaliation list unless the EC approved the proposal, he said. Reuter 
CANADA'S MULRONEY SAYS U.S. TRADE DEAL NEARS

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said "significant progress" was being made in trade talks with the United States and a profile of a major deal was emerging. Opening a debate on free trade in the House of Commons, Mulroney said an accord would create thousands of jobs in Canada and bring greater economic prosperity to both countries. Mulroney, who offered few new details of the talks, said that while the negotiations were risky and difficult, "a profile of a major trade deal is now emerging." In a 50-minute address, Mulroney made an often passionate defense of the initiative that he said would give poorer areas of the country a major economic boost. "Because of our trading patterns over a period of decades, we are in the process of building two Canadas -- one that is rich and promising, one that is under-developed and under-employed," said Mulroney. "What we want is to make sure Newfoundlanders and British Columbians and Albertans and others, that they get their chance. They must be given the opportunity to trade their way to prosperity." Few detials have been released on the trade talks which were launched nearly two years ago between the two nations that are each others most important trading partners. Recent published reports in Canada, quoting senior trade sources, said the countries were close to reaching a trade deal and it will involve eliminating border trariffs and many non-tariff barriers over the next 10 to 12 years. It has been reported a key stumbling block in the talks is a Canadian proposal to find a new way to settle trade disputes, something that would give Canada protection from Washington's tough trade remedy laws. But Mulroney, sharply critical of protectionist sentiment in the U.S, said Canada was a "fair trader" and denied the government was pursuing the deal to win unfair access to the American market. He said a trade deal must bring benefits to both sides. "We recognize a good deal must be a fair deal, one that is fair to both sides," Mulroney said. Reuter 
NYFE SEAT SELLS FOR 200 DLRS

The New York Stock Exchange said a seat sold on the New York Futures Exchange for 200 dlrs, unchanged from the previous sale on March 13. It also said a second seat sold on the NYFE for 100 dlrs, down 100 dlrs from the previous sale. The current bid is for 100 dlrs and the offer is for 300 dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. COULD COMPLAIN TO GATT ON CANADA CORN DUTY

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter suggested the U.S. could file a formal complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) challenging Canada's decision to impose duties on U.S. corn imports. Asked about the Canadian government decision to apply a duty of 84.9 cents per bushel on U.S. corn shipments, Yeutter said the U.S. could file a formal complaint with GATT under the dispute settlement procedures of the subsidies code. Other U.S. options would be to appeal the decision in Canadian courts, or to retaliate against Canadian goods, a lower-level U.S. trade official said. However, retaliation is an unlikely step, at least initially, that official said. No decision on U.S. action is expected at least until after documents on the ruling are received here later this week. Reuter 
TRADE SEES STEADY CORN/WHEAT EXPORT INSPECTIONS

The USDA's weekly export inspection report is expected to show steady corn and wheat exports and lower soybean exports, according to CBT floor traders' forecasts. Traders projected soybean exports at 16 mln to 18 mln bushels, down from 18.6 mln bushels a week ago and 20.3 mln bushels a year ago. Corn guesses ranged from 22 mln to 26 mln bushels, compared with 25.2 mln bushels a week ago and 22.4 million bushels a year ago. Wheat guesses ranged from 13 mln to 17 mln bushels, compared with 16.8 mln bushels a week ago and 13.4 mln bushels a year ago. Reuter 
BP <BP> UNIT SEES MINE PROCEEDING

British Petroleum Co PLC said based on a feasibility report from <Ridgeway Mining Co>, its joint venture Ridgeway Project in South Carolina could start commercial gold production by mid-1988. The company said the mine would produce at an approximate rate of 158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first four full years of operation from 1989 through 1992 and at an average of 133,000 ounces a year over the full projected 11-year life of the mine. BP's partner in the venture is Galactic Resources Ltd <GALCF> of Toronto. The company said subject to receipt of all statutory permits, finalization of financing arrangements and management and joint venture review, construction of a 15,000 short ton per day processing facility can start. Capital costs to bring the mine into production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs. Reuter 
BP UNIT SEES U.S. GOLD MINE PROCEEDING

British Petroleum Co PLC said based on a feasibility report from Ridgeway Mining Co, its joint venture Ridgeway Project in South Carolina could start commercial gold production by mid-1988. The company said the mine would produce approximately 158,000 ounces of gold per year over the first four full years of operation from 1989 through 1992 and at an average 133,000 ounces a year over the full projected 11 year life of the mine. BP's partner is Galactic Resources Ltd of Toronto. BP said subject to receipt of all statutory permits, finalization of financing arrangements and management and joint venture review, construction of a 15,000 short ton per day processing facility can start. Capital costs to bring the mine into production are estimated at 76 mln dlrs. Reuter 
TRADE INTERESTS READY FOR BATTLE IN U.S. HOUSE

U.S. lawmakers are gearing up for a showdown between protectionists and free traders as a major trade bill winds its way through committees to a vote by the full House of Representatives in late April. In a move to toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws, a key House subcommittee last week approved a toned-down version of legislation to require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign countries that follow unfair trade practices. The bill will be the cornerstone of congressional efforts to restore competitiveness of American industries and turn around last year's record 169 billion dlrs trade deficit. Generally, the bill's provisions toughen U.S. enforcement of trade laws. The trade bill forces the administration to act rapidly on complaints of unfair trade practices, such as dumping products in the United States at prices below cost of production. It also forces the administration to act rapidly when an industry complains that a surge in imports threatens its existence. In writing the bill, the subcommittee rejected calls for trade relief for specific industries such as textiles. Several lawmakers have argued the new trade bill made too many concessions to Reagan and said they intend to back amendments to "get tough" with countries that violate trade agreements or keep out U.S. products. But congressmen known for their allegiance to free trade said the bill ties Reagan's hands too much in trade disputes and they will seek to restore his negotiating powers. Bill Frenzel, R-MI., said the subcommittee's bill was not one "that a free trader like me could endorse in all respects," but he emphasized there was a consensus among lawmakers to work toward a bill Reagan and Republicans would ultimately endorse. The goal of trade legislation was "to make our trade policy stronger without violating our international trade agreements," he said. In a key concession made at the urging of Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski, D-IL., the trade subcommittee backed off a requirement that would have forced Reagan to impose automatically quotas or tariffs on imports from countries that engage in unfair trade practices. It also agreed the president may waive any retaliation if it would hurt the U.S. economy. Rostenkowski insisted the more moderate approach was necessary if the House wanted to pass a bill Reagan would sign into law. Reagan last year blocked Senate consideration of a tough House trade bill he branded as protectionist and this year he only reluctantly agreed to support a trade bill when he saw Democratic leaders were determined to pass such legislation. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters late last week that the administration still did not like some of the bill's provisions, but he added, "Generally we feel very good about the bipartisan consideration of the trade legislation. I think we are progressing very well." The first battle will take place next week when the full House Ways and Means Committee considers an amendment by Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-MO., to force countries like Japan, South Korea and Taiwan to cut their trade surpluses with the U.S. The subcommittee limited the Gephardt plan to provide only that the existence of a large trade surplus with the United States will trigger an investigation of unfair trade practices, but would not automatically set off retaliation. Organized labor has pressed lawmakers for more relief from imports where jobs have been lost to foreign competition. AFL-CIO president Lane Kirkland this year angered the administration when he said any trade bill Reagan would sign would not be worth passage in Congress. But Rostenkowski set the tone of the trade debate by saying, "I'm not trying to write legislation to please Lane Kirkland. I'm trying to write legislation that will be signed by the president." Rep. Ed Jenkins (D-GA.) intends to push separately a bill to protect the domestic textile and shoe industry, an aide said. Reagan vetoed a similar measure last year. House Speaker Jim Wright of Texas, one of the most influential proponents of aid for specific industries beset by low-priced foreign competition, last week renewed his call for import relief for the domestic oil industry and announced his support for a Senate plan to trigger a temporary oil import tariff when imports reach half of domestic consumption. Reuter 
U.S., TURKEY SIGN AID AGREEMENT

The United States and Turkey signed a five-year defence and economic agreement (DECA) that will channel hundreds of millions of dollars a year in aid to Ankara. The agreement was signed by Secretary of State George Shultz and Foreign Minister Vahit Halefoglu after 18 months of negotiations that won Ankara considerably less than it wanted. Under the agreement, the U.S. government pledged it would use "vigor and determination" to persuade Congress to vote the money to build up Turkish defenses in return for U.S. air bases and intelligence-gathering facilities. Under today's agreement, which runs until December, 1990, Turkey will receive nearly 720 mln dlrs in military and economic aid this year. Next year, the U.S. government has promised to ask Congress for 910 mln dlrs under an agreement that prompted domestic crticism in Turkey for not winning enough aid. Reuter 
SEC OKAYS BOESKY FIRMS' MOVE TO PROTECT FUNDS

The Securities and Exchange Commission approved a request by two firms controlled by inside trader Ivan Boesky that allows them to take steps to protect hundreds of millions of dollars from potential claimants. The SEC granted requests made by Seemala Partners L.P. and IFB Managing Partnership L.P., to withdraw as registered brokers, effective March 12. With the action, the partnerships are no longer subject to the SEC's net capital rules requiring them to remain solvent as brokerage firms. Seemala argued the move would be necessary if noteholders of Ivan Boesky and Co L.P. are to be repaid. In asking the SEC to speed its withdrawal as a registered broker, Seemala said it wold repay to Boesky and Co, which is also controlled by the former Wall Street arbitrageur, 660 mln dlrs in subordinated debt, plus accrued interest. IFB Managing Partners, which was also given approval to withdraw as a broker, has no significant assets, the SEC said. Once it is repaid, Boesky and Co will pay 200 mln dlrs in senior participating notes and 440 mln dlrs in subordinated participating notes of Hudson Funding Corp to certain noteholders, Seemala told the SEC. Under the planned repayment scheme, Seemala told the SEC the noteholders would forgo claims of prepayment penalties and some additional interest amounting to more than 100 mln dlrs. The plan would be in the public interest, Seemala argued, since the noteholders, many of which are savings and loan institutions and insurance companies, would receive repayment of the principal on their notes. Seemala also argued that the plan would help the limited partners of Boesky and Co, who were not charged in the Boesky insider trading scandal, by protecting its remaining equity from the noteholders' claims. Unless the Boesky firms are allowed to complete the repayment plan, Seemala said Boesky and Co noteholders would seek total claims of 116.8 mln dlrs, plus 9.2 mln dlrs to 10.6 mln dlrs a month in addition, in addition to other claims. Such claims could wipe out Boesky and Co's assets before other creditors can establish their claims, Seemala said. The only opposition to Seemala's Feb 12 request to withdraw as a broker came from Berger and Montague P.C., counsel for the plaintiffs in a class action suit against Seemala and other defendants. The suit involves charges stemming from Boesky's insider trading in the stock of several major companies. Berger and Montague told the SEC it opposes the Seemala proposal because it would allow Boesky and Co noteholders to settle their claims ahead of the plaintiffs in the class action and because Seemala did not disclose the total amount of claims against it and what percentage defrauded investors would get. Seemala has said that its repayment scheme would leave a pool of about 278 mln dlrs free of claims from Boesky and Co noteholders which could satisfy other claimants. The pool would be in addition to funds placed in escrow under insider trading settlement agreements, including 11.4 mln dlrs from Dennis Levine and 50 mln dlrs from Boesky. In approving the request, the SEC barred Seemala and Boesky and Co from making any distributions to its limited partners for one year and required limited partners who receive distributions to agree to make themselves liabile up to a point in any case filed the partnerships. The SEC also required Seemala and Boesky and Co to get confirmation of their assets from a nationally recognized accounting firm. The agency said Boesky and Co and existing and potential claimants against it have similar interests in eliminating major creditors and preserving assets for future claims. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 18,345 WHEAT 11,470 CORN 34,940



USDA DETAILS CONSERVATION CROP ENROLLMENT

Farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops, Agriculture Department conservation specialists said. Soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the non-program crop acreage enrolled, a USDA analyst said. Heavy enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said. Wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program. USDA analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown: -- wheat 2,615,140 acres -- corn 1,894,764 acres -- barley 705,888 acres -- sorghum 585,552 acres -- cotton 417,893 acres -- rice 2,035 acres -- peanuts 611 acres -- tobacco 285 acres -- total program crops 6,512,700 acres -- total nonprogram 4,059,702 acres -- total enrollment 10,572,402 acres USDA analysts are currently working on a complete state breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready for publication later this week, they said. Reuter 
U.S. SENATOR UNCOMMITTED ON OFFERING 0/92 BILL

Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, ranking Republican on the U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee, has not decided whether to introduce an administration-backed bill to apply the so-called 0/92 provision to 1988 through 1990 grain crops, an aide to the senator said. The Reagan administration has asked Lugar to offer the measure, the aide said. However, a number of farm groups have told Lugar they oppose the proposal on the grounds it would reopen the 1985 farm bill, and the senator has decided to take a second look at the proposal, the aide said. Last week the aide indicated Lugar was planning to offer the 0/92 measure and a bill to tighten a payment limitation loophole. Reuter 
NYSE TO REPORT IMBALANCES ON EXPIRATION FRIDAY

The New York Stock Exchange said it will cooperate with the Securities and Exchange Commission by disclosing imbalances in market-on-close orders in 50 major stocks thirty minutes prior to the close of trading Friday. The procedure will be followed this Friday when stock index futures and options and individual stock options expire simultaneously. Such triple expirations occur four times a year and in the past have been associated with big swings in stock market averages. In a new variation of the disclosure rules, the NYSE said no market-on-close orders related to index arbitrage can be entered after 1530 EST. The NYSE said all market-on-close orders for 50 big capitalization stocks, including the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, must be entered by 1530 EST Friday. The NYSE will then furnish to financial news services any imbalance in market-on-close orders of 10,000 shares or more. After 1530 EST market-on-close orders in the 50 stocks can be entered only on the opposite side of the imbalance. But the bar on entering market-on-close orders related to index arbitrage after 1530 EST is a new element of the disclosure plan, which has the goal of making the market less volatile during the triple expirations. Reuter 
PRO-MED CAPITAL <PRMD> TO BE INCLUDED IN NMS

Pro-Med Capital Inc said its common will be included in the next expansion of the NASDAQ National Market System, which will take place tomorrow. Reuter 
CME, CBOE TO LAUNCH INTERNATIONAL STOCK INDEX

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, and the Chicago Board Options Exchange, CBOE, announced today that they will trade futures and options, respectively, on an index of international securities compiled by Morgan Stanley Group Inc. Morgan Stanley said it has agreed to license the exchanges to use the Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australia and Far East, or EAFE, stock index as the trading basis. The EAFE index is comprised of 900 international stocks from 16 nations in Europe, the Far East, and Australia. "The EAFE is the only instrument by which world markets are measured," CME special counsel Leo Melamed said at a news conference announcing the agreement. CME Chairman Jack Sandner noted that one-third of the exchange's daily trading volume now derives from overseas. "The success of our index markets, particularly the S and P index, is ample precedent to forging ahead" in international markets, he said. Mark Sladkus, publisher of Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective, said Japanese bank stocks represent the largest portion of the index. The officials said the exchanges have not yet submitted the EAFE index to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission for approval. However, Melamed said approval is not expected to be granted quickly, and the exchanges did not set a starting date for the new contracts. The EAFE index is tabulated daily, but Sladkus said real-time calculation will be introduced when trading begins. The conflicting opening and closing of international securities markets will have to be accommodated in the calculations, he noted. Morgan Stanley has been calculating the EAFE index weekly since 1970 and daily since 1972. The CME and CBOE will negotiate with a third party to be "an independent monitor ... the guardian" of the index, Melamed said. "Morgan will remove itself from deciding which stocks move in and out of the index." Reuter 
MORGAN <JPM> SAYS BRAZIL NONACCRUALS MAY RISE

J.P. Morgan and Co Inc said that Brazil's recent suspension of interest payments on part of its commercial bank debt may lift its nonaccrual loans this year. Morgan, which has over 1.9 billion dlrs of Brazilian debt, said in its annual report, "it is possible that nonaccrual loans to borrowers in Brazil could increase during 1987." However, a spokesman for Morgan told Reuters, "right now we are still accruing interest and we have not yet decided what will be done as of March 31." Citicorp <CCI> said last week that 3.9 billion dlrs of Brazilian loans may be put on a cash basis on March 31. Reuter 
PACIFIC RESOURCES <PRI> INSTALLS OIL MOORING

Pacific Resources Inc said it has installed a CALM (Catenary Anchor Leg Mooring) single-point mooring terminal off the southwest coast of Oahu at its Hawaiian Independent Refinery at a cost of 3.5 mln dlrs. The system transfers crude and fuel oils from tankers to the refinery's tank farm and carries refined products to ships for export, PRI said. Company chairman Robert G. Reed said the new mooring system will permit 24-hour service in most kinds of weather and will reduce ship turnaround time. He said the mooring is the first of its kind in the U.S. The new system can accomodate vessels up to 150,000 deadweight tons, or one mln barrels of cargo, PRI said. Reuter 
MORE CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR ALGERIA -- USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has approved an additional 84.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria for fiscal year 1987 under the Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-102), the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the additional guarantees provide up to 31.0 mln dlrs in coverage for sales of protein meals, 9.0 mln dlrs for tallow, and 44.0 mln dlrs for vegetable oils. The latest guarantees increase the cumulative fiscal 1987 program for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria to 464.0 mln dlrs from 380.0, it said. To be eligible for the credit guarantees, all sales must be registered with the CCC by September 30, and shipments completed by December 31, 1987, it said. Reuter 
PL 480 COMMODITIES FOR HONDURAS -- USDA

The United States has signed a Public Law 480 agreement with Honduras to provide for the sale of 12.0 mln dlrs worth of U.S. agricultural commodities, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The agreement, signed March 11, provides for the sale of about 75,000 tonnes of wheat/wheat flour worth 8.5 mln dlrs, 15,000 tonnes of corn/sorghum worth 1.5 mln dlrs and 6,000 tonnes of tallow worth 2.0 mln dlrs, the department said. The commodities will be supplied in the current fiscal year, ending September 30, and sales will be by private U.S. traders on a competitive bid basis. Purchase authorizations will be announced as issued. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 150,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO UNKNOWN DESTINATIONS FOR 1986/87



SENS. DANFORTH, BOND ASK TARGETED 0/92 MEASURE

Missouri Republican Senators John Danforth and Christopher Bond have introduced a bill that would allow wheat and feedgrain producers along the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers hurt by flooding last year to collect at least 92 pct of their deficiency payments this year without planting. Danforth aide Austin Schlick said the bill was similar to a provision included in a House Agriculture Committee-passed emergency disaster assistance bill scheduled to be taken up by the House tomorrow. Schlick said flooding destroyed a number of levees along the two rivers last October, leaving farmland there vulnerable to further damage this year. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON BARLEY TO CYRPUS

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid on an export bonus to cover the sale of 8,000 tonnes of barley to Cyprus, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The barley is for shipment May 5-20 and the bonus of 39.32 dlrs per tonne was made to Harvest States Cooperatives, the department said. The bonus will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks. The department said an additional 42,000 tonnes of U.S. barley are still available to Cyprus under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced on August 26, 1986. Reuter 
MORGAN <MS> LICENSES OVERSEAS INDEX FOR TRADING

Morgan Stanley Group Inc said its Capital International Europe, Australia and Far East, or EAFE, stock index will be a used as a basis for trading futures and listed options. The company said it granted licenses to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Options for the EAFE index. The index includes 900 companies representing 16 national stock markets in Europe, Australia and the Far East. It is used as a benchmark of international stock market activity, the company said. Reuter 
OMB CHIEF SAYS CONGRESS CLOSE ON DEFICIT CUTS

Office of Management and Budget Director James Miller said he believed Congress was moving closer to a compromise with the administration over federal budget deficit cuts for the coming fiscal year. "I think Congress is moving in the direction of the president," he told Reuters as he was about to address a meeting of the Federal Managers Association. He did not elaborate on this but said a reported agreement by House and Senate budget writers calling for about 36 billion dlrs in deficit cuts was "six billion too short." The administration proposed 42 billion dlrs in deficit reductions. Reuter 
NEW EEP DURUM WHEAT OFFER TO ALGERIA -- USDA

U.S. exporters will have the opportunity to sell an additional 300,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat to Algeria under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the sales will be subsidized with commodities from the Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, inventory and the subsidy will enable U.S. exports to compete at commercial prices in the Algerian market. Algeria has already purchased 300,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat under a previous export enhancement initiative announced November 10, 1986, it said. Details of the latest initiative, including an invitation for offers from exporters, will be issued in the near future, the department said. Reuter 
U.S. EEP VEG OIL PROPOSALS STILL UNDER REVIEW

U.S. Agriculture Department proposals to offer 260,000 tonnes of subsidized vegetable oil to four countries are still under consideration by an interagency trade policy group, a USDA official close to the group said. The official, who asked not to be identified, dismissed a report circulating in markets today that the interagency trade policy review group had rejected the proposals. Under the proposals, USDA would offer vegetable oil under the export enhancement program, EEP, to four countries, including 80,000 tonnes to Turkey and 60,000 tonnes to Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, industry sources said. The proposals "are still under review" by the interagency working group, the USDA official said. Reuter 
IRAN GAIN IN IRAQI TERRITORY SEEN INSIGNIFICANT

The United States today dismissed as insignificant gains by Iranian forces in Northern Iraq. State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters the gain in an area around Mount Kardemand had no signifficant bearing on the seven-year-old Gulf war. Press reports from the region said the Iranian push had placed its forces to move against the road to Rawandiz, some 60 miles (96 KM) north of major Iraqi oil fields and refineries and the Turkish-Iraqi pipeline at Kirkuk. But Redman said the Iranian push "took place in an area of Iraqi territory which is of little strategic value". "Actual possession of the area has seesawed between Iraq and Iran since the early days of the war," he added. The Iranian push that captured the territory nearly two weeks ago and reported in the American press this weekend, was not a major offensive, Redman said. Reuter 
DATAPOWER <DPWRC> FELL BELOW NASD REQUIREMENTS

Datapower Inc said it failed to meet the NASDAQ capital and surplus requirements as of February 20, but it received an exemption which will allow its common stock to continue to be included in the automated quotation system, subject to certain conditions. Should Nasdaq terminate quotation of its securities at some future date, the securities will continue to be quoted in the over-the-counter market, Datapower also said. Reuter 
SENATE COMMITTEE MAY LOOK AT FUEL TAX PROPOSALS

The Senate budget committee sits down tomorrow to start drafting a fiscal 1988 budget, with the budget writers expected to look at several proposals for fuel taxes and other tax options to cut the budget. In a briefing book for the drafting sessions, a number of revenue raising tax options are proposed, including a five dlrs a barrel fee on domestic and imported oil, a fee just on imported oil, and a broad based tax on domestic energy consumption based on five pct of value. Other proposals include various excise taxes and combinations of import surcharges or tariffs, including a 10 pct import across the board import surcharge that would raise 22 billion dlrs next year alone, more in later years. The committee, however, will only include revenue numbers in its proposed budget with the actual revenue decisions left to the House and Senate tax-writing committees. The committee will draft a budget which its chairman, Sen Lawton Chiles, a Florida Democrat, said he hopes would raise at least 18 billion dlrs in revenues, or about half the minimum 36 billion dlr deficit reduction he has in mind. The House Budget Committee also plans to start drafting a separate budget plan later this week, which would have to be reconciled with the Senate version. The final budget would be the fiscal 1988 spending and revenue blueprint. Reuter 
SOYBEAN GROUPS MEET WITH LYNG TO DISCUSS LOAN

A high-level meeting last week which included the Secretary of Agriculture and other senior USDA officials, along with leaders of the major soybean lobbying groups, failed to reach any decision on what should be done about the soybean loan level, participants at the meeting told Reuters. "We didn't feel a lot was accomplished last week, but we were delighted to meet with the Secretary, and he didn't close the door on anything," a member of the soybean delegation said. At issue is the current soybean loan and the fact that at the present level of 4.77 dlrs (without Gramm-Rudman reductions) it encourages foreign soybean production by making soybeans more profitable to grow than corn. But while recognizing that soybeans are priced too high in relation with corn, soybean groups have pledged their support to maintaining current price supports for soybean growers. Leaders of the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association offered specific loan options to USDA Secretary Lyng in last week's meeting, but participants would not reveal what those options were. "There were no surprises in our package," one participant said. Bandied about for several weeks has been the idea of offering producers soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates. The most prevailing scheme would be to pay a 4.77 loan with 77 cts worth of soybean-specific certificates which would not have to be paid back and the remaining four dlrs in cash. This would have the effect of lowering the world price, maintaining domestic support levels and reducing the government's soybean inventory. A marketing loan for soybeans was not discussed at last week's meeting, participants said. One member of the soybean delegation said that the meeting was a "listening session" for USDA, and that the proposals will now be studied further by the Department. USDA officials, however, would not commit to any time frame. Participants in the meeting do not look for changes in the soybean loan to be announced in the near future. "USDA is very sensitive about saying anything that could influence the market, so the Secretary was very non-committal," a participant said. Reuter 
U.S. HEATING OIL FUTURES UP SHARPLY IN APRIL

A supply shortage of number two oil in New York for prompt delivery boosted the April heating oil contract on U.S. energy futures, traders said. Crude oil futures followed but gasoline futures lagged. April heating oil ended 1.24 cts higher to 51.65 cts a gallon, while April crude settled 28 cts higher at 18.64 dlrs. "The rally was led by spot month heating oil contract, which seemed to move higher because of tigtened prompt deliveries in New York Harbor," said James Ritterbusch, vice president at Paine Webber Inc in Chicago. April gasoline was 0.28 cent higher at 53.15 cts a gallon. Ritterbusch said the market also found support from a report in the Middle East Economics Survey that said that OPEC oil output was down to about 14 mln barrels per day in the second week of March. "There was not a lot of interest to sell the market because of belief in OPEC," said Richard Redoglia, a broker with Merrill Lynch Futures Inc. Redoglia and Ritterbusch said April heating oil could continue to rally above 53 cts a gallon, while crude futures could test 19 dlrs a barrel before profit-taking stunts the move higher. Reuter 
BANKAMERICA <BAC> CHIEF SEES BRAZIL SOLUTION

BankAmerica Corp chairman A.W. Clausen said he believes Brazil will successfully restructure its foreign debt sometime this year, but in the meantime that country's creditors could suffer somwehat over the short term. He also said Brazil's decision to suspend foreign debt payments is most likely a move aimed at strengthening its negotiating position. "I believe it was a posturing move on the part of the country," Clausen said. Clausen made his comments during an address at a Chamber of Commerce luncheon here. Last month Brazil, which has about 110 billion dlrs of foreign debt, suspended payment on some 68 billion dlrs owned to private banks while it worked out its economic problems. BankAmerica has some 2.74 billion dlrs in loans outstanding to Brazil. Clausen also said he did not think any financial institutions would be "done in" by Brazil's suspension of debt payments and he added "I do not believe the International Monetary Fund will come to a roaring halt." Reuter 
EXPLOSIVE FABRICATORS <BOOM> MAKES NASDAQ LIST

Explosive Fabricators Inc said its common stock began trading on NASDAQ over-the-counter market March 16 with the quotation symbol BOOM. Reuter 
DEBT PROGNOSIS AGREED, BUT NO CURE IN SIGHT

Latin America urgently needs more money if it is to grow its way out of its deepening debt crisis, but fresh ideas about how to stimulate new lending quickly seem to be in short supply. Bankers, officials and academics at a conference organized by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology stressed the importance of proper economic policies and increased private investment. But they offered no glimpse of a grand design to banish the specter of a widespread repudiation of the region's 380 billion dlr debt. "Such a solution is still not in sight," said Nobel Prize-winning economist Franco Modigliani. The conference was held against the background of the recent suspension of interest payments by Brazil and Ecuador, but it was Argentine finance secretary Mario Brodersohn who spelled out most clearly the social and economic strains caused by the need to service billions of dlrs of debt. Brodersohn, who is negotiating currently with foreign banks for a 2.15 billion dlr loan for 1987, says Argentina will have to grow at a four pct annual rate between now and 1992 simply to restore per capita income to the level of 1975. He said the investment needed to fuel this growth can come partly from structural economic reforms at home, but this alone will not be enough. "We have to reduce the transfer of resources," Brodersohn said, adding that mounting economic strains in Latin America make this a matter of urgency. Brodersohn and other Latin officials, however, did not spell out how this should be achieved. The creditors' strategy, spelled out by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker in October 1985, is to spur additional lending by private banks and multilateral development banks in return for economic reforms. But there was a widespread recognition at the conference that the Baker Plan has fallen well short of expectations. Miguel Urrutia, a senior official of the Inter-American Development Bank, for instance, said IADB lending had actually declined in 1986 and had started slowly in 1987. Mexico is due to sign a 7.7 billion dlr loan on Friday that will be the first major facility under the Baker Plan, which called for net new bank lending between 1986 and 1988, a target that Morris Goldstein of the International Monetary Fund said is now optimistic. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs Paul Taylor acknowledged that the Baker Plan "has not yet succeeded as well as we hoped." But if the debtors at the conference were hoping to hear an official commitment to try a new tack, they must have been disappoiunted. Ted Truman, director of the International Finance Diviision at the Federal Reserve Board, said banks were short-sighted in not lending promptly and in the amounts called for by Baker. He said some streamlining of the lending process may be needed, but added, "I see no alterantive to the present course of responsible cooperation." A major theme at the conference, however, was that the world economy might not continue to cooperate while the debtors and creditors muddle along. If export markets dry up because of recession or protectionism, speakers warned, Latin America will be even more hard-pressed to service its debts. Rimmer de Vries, chief international economist at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co, said he was very concerned that world economic growth of three to 3-1/2 pct cannot be sustained and that West Germany and Japan wowuld not take up the slack in the world economy that will arise as the U.S. narrows its trade deficit. "There's a deflationary force coming down the mountain, and I don't know who's going to be rolled over," de Vries said. He called for a new lending initiative with a wide menu of options as alternatives to pure new money. "Can we not manage this lending a bit more imaginatively?" he asked the conference. But new ideas take time to devise and implement, and Brazil's suspension of interest payments shows that the aptience of debtors might be wearing thin. Persio Arida, a former director of the Brazizlian central bank who was a key architect of that country's Cruzado plan to curb inflation, said there is an "incentive problem" throughout Latin America. Reuter 
POINDEXTER MAY GET IMMUNITY TO HELP TRACK FUNDS

Congressional investigators tentatively plan to grant immunity to former presidential National Security Advisor John Poindexter who they say may help track missing money from Iran arms sales. Congressional sources told Reuters the House of Representatives and Senate committees probing the arms scandal are expected to back a preliminary accord reached last Friday by their legal advisors to grant Poindexter immunity from prosecution in return for his testimony. He would be the first leading figure in the affair to be granted immunity. Poindexter resigned from his White House post in November when it was divulged that up to 30 mln dlrs in arms sales profits might have been diverted to Nicaraguan contra rebels. Congressional investigators and a presidential review commission have not tracked beyond secret Swiss and Cayman Island bank accounts mlns of dlrs said to have been diverted. The sources said Poindexter could help trace the money, which is one of the big riddles of the scandal. "Obviously we think he is a very important witness," said a House source. Poindexter has refused to testify before Congress, citing his constitutional rights against self-incrimination. REUTER 
U.S. AGRICULTURE SECRETARY WARNS EC ON SOY OIL TAX

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the European Community yesterday it will face serious retaliation if it enacts a new tax on products such as U.S. Soybean oil. Speaking at a news conference before a scheduled speech, Lyng said he did not think the tax, which is still in the discussion stage, would be approved. He said the U.S. Would take serious retaliatory action because if implemented, the tax would have a considerable impact on U.S. Farmers. REUTER 
COASTAL <CGP> SEEKS TO HALT BILLION DLR LAWSUIT

Coastal Corp said a federal bankruptcy court will hear its request today for a restraining order to stop a two billion dlr lawsuit against it by <TransAmerican Natural Gas Corp>. TransAmerican, which entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in 1983 to reorganise its debts, filed the lawsuit to block Coastal from taking control. Coastal spokesman Jim Bailey confirmed the company, which is an unsecured creditor of TransAmerican, would present its own reorganisation plan to the bankruptcy court. Under the plan, Coastal would buy the natural gas reserves and pipeline system owned by TransAmerican in Texas for an undisclosed amount. TransAmerican lawyer John Nabors said the company values its total assets, including an unused oil refinery, at about one billion dlrs. The company, the second-largest natural gas producer in Texas, said it has gas reserves of 1.2 trillion cubic feet and over 1,000 miles of pipeline and gas gathering lines. About 80 pct of TransAmerican's gas is available for spot market sales in Texas during peak demand, it said. Nabors said the TransAmerican reorganisation would repay its 770 mln dlr debt with profits from natural gas sales. The lawsuit seeks one billion dlrs in actual damages and one billion in punitive damages from Coastal. Coastal has been trying to break into the Texas gas market since 1979, when it was forced to sell <Lo-Vaca Gas Gathering Co> to settle over 1.6 billion dlrs in lawsuits by Texas customers facing abrupt curtailment of supply. Coastal, a natural gas producer and pipeline company, earned 71.6 mln dlrs on sales of 6.7 billion in 1986, about half the its 1985 profits, due to slumping energy prices. REUTER 
STUDY PREDICTS U.S. DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL

A government study has concluded the U.S. Will be dependent on oil from the middle east into the next century and must take steps to reduce its vulnerability, the New York Times said. The newspaper said the inter-agency government study found a serious oil-dependency problem due to steadily falling domestic production and rising demand for imported oil. The study concluded that by 1995 the U.S. Will be relying on foreign countries for 50 pct of its oil, more than the peak of 48 pct reached in 1977 and far above the 33 pct rate during the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo. The U.S. Now imports about 38 pct of its oil needs, up from 27 pct a year ago, the New York Times said. It said recommendations sent to the White House by Energy Secretary John Harrington include financial incentives to raise domestic oil production by one mln barrels a day from the current 8.4 mln barrels. The newspaper said the administration has placed increased emphasis on stockpiling oil reserves. It said the view now held is that the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to be tapped in times of shortages, should be increased by 100,000 barrels a day, rather than 35,000 as called for in the 1988 budget. The newspaper said Harrington may propose restoring the depletion allowance to major producers. "The administration also plans to renew its efforts to ...Repeal the windfall profits tax, remove bars to drilling on the outer continental shelf and repeal the law that limits the use of natural gas in industrial and utility boilers," it added. The New York Times quoted Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma as saying the study greatly underestimated potential U.S. Demand for imported oil in the next decade and overestimated the amount of domestic oil which would be produced. REUTER 
WORLD BANK EXPECTED TO APPROVE PHILIPPINES LOAN

The World Bank is expected to approve a 310 mln dlr economic recovery loan for the Philippines at a meeting of its executive board today in Washington, Central Bank sources said. The sources said the loan, agreed upon in principle last September during a visit to the United States by President Corazon Aquino, had been held up by Philippine government delays in fulfilling key conditions. They said the documents required by the World Bank were not submitted by Manila until late February. The sources said the loan is needed to rehabilitate the the state-owned Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), which together are burdened with seven billion dlrs of non-performing assets. They said the World Bank had insisted the two banks appoint independent auditors and draft revised charters. It also laid down several conditions for an Asset Privatisation Trust (APT) planned by the government to dispose of the banks' unproductive assets, the sources said. The APT, set up in January, is headed by banker and businessman David SyCip. The sources said the World Bank wanted respected private sector individuals to be appointed to the APT, and immunity from prosecution for the trust. It wanted a clause saying buyers of non-performing assets could not be prosecuted. The Manila Standard newspaper quoted Rolando Arrivillaga, World Bank representative in the Philippines, as saying the loan would be in three 100 mln dlr tranches. The first tranche would be available late this month or in early April. Arrivillaga said the remaining 10 mln dlrs was in the form of technical assistance available for disbursement during a 36-month period. Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin has said approval of the loan will trigger another 300 mln dlr loan expected from the Export-Import Bank of Japan. The Central Bank sources said negotiations would start in April on another 150 mln dlr loan from the World Bank to implement reforms in the government corporate sector. The sources said the World Bank is expected to approve the loan by August, after a review of the government's non-financial institutions. The government's 14 major corporations rely heavily on budgetary support to supplement external borrowing to meet their yearly revenue shortfalls. REUTER 
AMEX CHANGED STOP/STOP LIMIT ORDER POLICY

The American Stock Exchange said effective March Three it started allowing specialists to accept both stop orders and stop limit orders in which the stop price and limit price are not identical. Previously, specialists were only allowed to accept stop order and stop limit orders in which the stop and limit prices were identical. The Amex said floor officials may still prohibit specialists from accepting stop and stop limit orders that would be detrimental to the market. Reuter 
U.S. FEB HOUSING STARTS ROSE 2.6 PCT TO 1.851 MLN, PERMITS ROSE 4.4 PCT TO 1.764 MLN



U.S. HOUSING STARTS ROSE 2.6 PCT IN FEBRUARY

U.S. housing starts rose 2.6 pct in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,851,000 units, the Commerce Department said. In January, housing starts fell a revised 0.5 pct to 1,804,000 units. The department previously said they fell 0.1 pct. The rate at which permits were issued for future construction rose in February by 4.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted 1,764,000 units after falling 11.52 pct to 1,690,000 units in January. Permits for single-family houses fell in January by 6.6 pct to 1,091,000. The number of permits for multi-family houses fell in February by 11.7 pct to 529,000 units after falling in January by 19.3 pct, the department said. Housing starts in February included a seasonally adjusted 5.6 pct rise in single family units to 1,317,000 units and a 4.1 pct fall in multi-family homes to 534,000 units. The seasonally adjusted permits total in February for single family units was 1,235,000 and for multi-family units was 529,000 units. Reuter 
TALKING POINT/COPPER STOCKS

Copper shares, which have lagged behind the market, should pick up steam this year on stronger demand and improving prices for the metal, analysts said. "Copper prices should move up over the next four to six quarters," said Daniel Roling of Merrill Lynch and Co <MER>. "I see average copper prices at 70 cts a pound in 1988, up from around 63 or 64 cts, based on tight supply and continued world economic growth." Other analysts see metal prices ranging from 65 to 68 cts a pound this year and 70 to 73 cts in 1988. Analysts said Phelps Dodge Corp <PD> will be a strong performer because it is the largest U.S. copper producer. But Asarco Inc <AR>, with about 45 pct of total sales from copper, and Newmont Mining Corp <NEM> are also potential winners, they said. Newmont is spinning off 85 pct of its copper operations to its shareholders. "In theory, Phelps is the best stock. It's the purest play and benefits most from higher copper prices," one said. William Siedenburg of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co, said Phelps has lowered costs and streamlined mining operations. "They've accomplished a great deal," he said. The company's move into carbon black, a product used in tires, should provide steady earnings, although not rapid growth, as a hedge against a copper downturn, Siedenburg said. He estimates Phelps will earn 2.45 dlrs in 1987 and 4.45 dlrs in 1988, including tax benefits, versus 1.79 dlrs in 1986. Other analysts, including Clarence Morrison of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc and Merrill's Roling, also recommend Phelps. Morrison projects Phelps will earn 3.25 dlrs in 1987 and four dlrs in 1988, while Roling sees earnings at 2.75 dlrs this year and around 3.50 dlrs next year. "The stock can go to the mid 30s," Roling said, from its current level of around 30. But others see it climbing to 40. "Their (Phelps Dodge) costs are so low, they don't need copper prices higher than 70 cts to make a lot of money," said Vahid Fathi of Prescott Ball and Turben Inc. "The shares will outperform the market over the next 18 months," he said. But Nick Toufexis of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc says Newmont Mining is a more attractive investment. "We'd rather place our bets with Newmont. Any way you slice it, I see a significant premium to the current stock price," he said. After the spinoff, which closes next month, Newmont will have gold operations, including 95 pct of Newmont Gold Co <NGC>, a 15 pct stake in its copper unit and energy operations, Toufexis noted. Analysts see Newmont earning 2.85 dlrs to three dlrs in 1987 and about 3.75 dlrs in 1988, versus earnings of about 1.40 dlrs from operations in 1986. "I'd be buying up to 90," Toufexis said last week, when the stock rose sharply to near that level. "But the shares are probably worth about 108 dlrs (each)." Dean Witter's Morrison and Fathi of Prescott Ball like Asarco, because of cost cutting and restructuring. Morrison sees 1987 earnings at 1.25 dlrs and 1988 at 1.75 against losses in 1986. Fathi projects Asarco will earn one dlr in 1987 and from three dlrs to 3.25 dlrs in 1988. Roling of Merrill Lynch is recommending Cyprus Minerals Co <CYPM> in addition to Phelps Dodge. Cyprus has interests in coal and other minerals aside from copper. But Siedenburg of Smith Barney thinks Cyprus is overpriced at current levels. "I would be willing to sell Cyprus and buy Phelps Dodge if I were picking one copper stock," he said. Reuter 
RENEWED BULL SPREADING LIKELY ON CATTLE REPORT

Livestock analysts expect renewed bull spreading in live cattle futures following yesterday's USDA 7-state cattle on feed report. The USDA reported high placements in February, which may weigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continued strong marketings during the month will support the April contract. Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50 cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analysts said. Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattle on feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst Tom O'Hare. "They have no place to send the grain," he said. Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support while the current discount of deferred months to the cash market may offset much of the effect of the report, analysts said. "The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report," said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added that even though placements came in above the average trade guess, many traders had expected high placements. Placements are not that negative, especially since the technical correction in June and August live cattle futures since last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said. He said the current marketing posture will provide added support to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have been running at a heavier than expected pace. Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that with the number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning of the year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. But the report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a year ago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted. "So far we haven't seen any decline in marketings. They (feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they had intended for the first quarter, which is a bullish development," Levitt said. Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part of March are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not falling behind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace. Reuter 
TANDEM <TNDM> APPLIES FOR NYSE LISTING

Tandem Computers Inc said it has applied for a New York Stock Exchange listing and expects to start trading there by mid-April. Tandem's stock is now traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT RECORD 36.84 BILLION DLRS IN 4TH QTR 1986



U.S. CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT 36.84 BILLION DLRS

The U.S. current account deficit widened to a record 36.84 billion dlrs on a balance of payments basis in the October-December fourth quarter of 1986 from a revised 35.29 billion dlrs in the third quarter, the Commerce Department said. Previously, the department said the third-quarter deficit was 36.28 billion dlrs. For the full year 1986, the current account, a broad measure of trade performance, was in deficit a record 140.57 billion dlrs after a 117.68 billion dlr deficit in 1985. The department said an increase in the merchandise trade deficit during the fourth quarter to 38.4 billion dlrs from 37.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter was the main reason for the worsening deficit. Net service receipts declined to 5.5 billion dlrs in the final quarter from six billion dlrs in the third quarter. The current account includes trade in merchandise and services as well as U.S. financial transactions with the rest of the world. The department said the merchandise trade deficit for all of 1986 grew to 147.7 billion from 124.4 billion dlrs in 1985. Net service receipts were 22.3 billion dlrs in 1986, compared with 21.7 billion dlrs in 1985, the department said. Net unilateral transfers during the fourth quarter last year, covering foreign aid and government pensions, were down to 3.9 billion dlrs from 4.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter because of fewer U.S. government grants to Mideast countries. Liabilities to foreigners reported by U.S. banks rose 35.3 billion dlrs between October and December after increasing 30.1 billion dlrs in the third quarter. For the full year, these liabilities grew 77.4 billion dlrs after rising by 40.4 billion dlrs in 1985. The department said inflows were boosted in the fourth quarter by international activities of Japanese banks and strong demand within the United States to finance acquisitions. Net foreign sales of U.S. Treasury securities by foreigners were 2.7 billion dlrs in the quarter after purchases of 500 mln dlrs in the third quarter. Net foreign purchases of securities other than U.S. Treasury securities in the fourth quarter were 11.8 billion dlrs, compared with 17.2 billion dlrs in the third quarter. For all 1986, foreign purchases of securities excluding U.S. Treasury securities were a record 70.7 billion dlrs, surpassing the previous record 50.9 billion dlr total in 1985. Claims on foreigners reported by U.S. banks in the fourth quarter rose 29.9 billion dlrs after a 19.3 billion dlr third-quarter increase. U.S. sales of foreign securities rose to 2.7 billion dlrs from 300 mln dlrs in the third quarter because of a sharp selloff of foreign stocks and bonds, the department said. Outflows for U.S. direct investment abroad fell to 5.7 billion dlrs from eight billion dlrs in the third quarter. Foreign direct investment in the United States increased 14.4 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, compared with 5.6 billion dlrs in the previous quarter, because of stepped-up acquisitions, the department said. Foreign official assets in the United States increased 800 mln dlrs between October and December after rising 15.4 billion dlrs in the third quarter. For the full year 1986, foreign official assets grew 33.4 billion dlrs after a 1985 decrease of 1.9 billion dlrs as foreign monetary authorities intervened heavily in exchange markets late in the year as the dollar fell, commerce said. Reuter 
BAKER URGES SUPPORT FOR DEVELOPMENT BANKS

Treasury Secretary James Baker urged Congress to support the administration's financing requests for the multilateral development banks in the next two fiscal years. Baker told a House appropriations subcommittee the administration's request for a total 2.1 billion dlrs in fiscal 1987 and 1988 would meet administration shortfalls and fulfill Washington's annual payment responsibilities. In testimony that went over much of the same ground as his remarks to a Senate committee some two weeks ago, Baker said support for the MDBs was crucial to U.S. economic leadership. Baker told the committee, "Our national self respect and our international leadership depend on our willingness to fulfill this responsibility." The administration budget requests include a supplemental request for fiscal 1987 of 293 mln dlrs and a 1.8 billion dlr request for fiscal 1988. Baker noted these requests included funding requirements negotiated by the administration with this committee. Baker's remarks outlined why the development banks were formed and the stake the U.S. had in maintaining them. Baker pointed out the U.S. has successfully sought reforms in several of the institutions and was pressing for reforms in others aimed at making them more efficient, with policies oriented toward free markets. He also gave the House subcommittee a progress report on the debt strategy and emphasized the importance of continued financing for the MDBs if the U.S. is to continue to lead in resolving the debt crisis. In other remarks, Baker repeated the need to finance the general foreign affairs budget and underscored how MDBs have served U.S. national interests. Reuter 
VARITY (VAT) SUBSIDIARY HAS SAUDI COMBINE SALE

Massey Combines Corp, 45 pct owned by Varity Corp, said it shipped 48 large conventional combines valued at nearly five mln Canadian dlrs to its Saudi Arabian distributor, located in Riyadh. Massey Combines said the combines shipment is the company's first major sale in Saudi Arabia since the sharp drop in world oil prices forced many oil-producing countries to curb machinery imports. Massey Combines, formerly Varity's combines division, became an independent business during a company restructuring completed last year. Reuter 
DUTCH OFFICIAL WARNS OF MORE TRADE CONFLICTS

Already strained relations between the U.S. And the European Community (EC) are likely to get worse before they get better, director general of the Dutch Economics Ministry's foreign affairs division Frans Engering said. Speaking at an American Chamber of Commerce lunch in The Hague, Engering noted the developing history of crises over steel, citrus and pasta, and warned of more to come. "I consider the strident tone of US declarations on Airbus ill-advised, and the EC fats and oils tax proposal a dangerous provocation," he said. "I feel that we shall probably have to deal with quite a few more crises in the foreseeable future." Not only is the US Congress clearly very determined to get the American balance of payments into better shape, but the risks of brinkmanship are all the greater because the EC has its own constraints in meeting outside pressure, Engering noted. "If we ask ourselves whether it is perhaps inevitable that we keep pushing each other to the brink of actual trade war, then I think the answer is probably yes," he said. In order to reduce these tensions, decision-making in the EC must become less self-centred, and the US Administration will have to exercise the authority to convince Congress and pressure groups of the need for accommodation, he added. Reuter 
NASD PROPOSES EQUAL SHARE VOTES WITH VARIATIONS

The National Association of Securities Dealers Inc said its board of governors has proposed adoption of uniform rules by major U.S. stock markets which would emphasize equal shareholder voting rights but allow for legitimate variations. The NASD said its proposal would eliminate differences in stockholder voting standards as a competitive factor between markets. It called on the Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt such a rule applying to all markets if each equity market is unwilling to voluntarily adopt a uniform rule under the commission's guidence. "Clearly the NASD would willingly be the first to" voluntarily adopt a uniform rule such as it is proposing, NASD President Gordon S. Macklin said in a letter to SEC Chairman John S.R. Shad. The NASD said its view is based on the association's study of the issue and from information developed at the SEC's recently concluded hearings on the subject. The current discussion of the one share-one vote issue was triggered by the New York Stock Exchange's application to the SEC for permission to abandon the standard with respect to companies listed on the NYSE, the NASD noted. It called for limiting variations of equal voting rights to situations involving complete disclosure such as - (1) shares in a registerd public offering where all facts connected with the company's capital structure are clearly spelled out in the prospectus and - (2) shares issued in connection with a merger, acquisition or recapitalization where the exchange of shares is accompanied by detailed proxy material. The NASD said the uniform rule should be written to disallow the issuance of dual classes of shares where those with superior voting rights are not resalable. Reuter 
REAGAN TO HOLD NEWS CONFERENCE THURSDAY

President Reagan, ending four months of semi-isolation from the press, will hold a televised news conference on Thursday, the White House said. Reagan is certain to be questioned extensively at the 2000 EST/0100 gmt session about the secret sale of arms to Iran and skimming of profits to aid U.S.-backed "contra" rebels in Nicaragua. During his last news conference on November 19, 1986 -- six days before the fund diversion came to light -- Reagan strongly defended the clandestine arms operation. During that session, the president also denied any third country involvement in the Iran initiative even though it was already known that Israel had played a key role in the arms shipments. The White House was forced to issue a correction following the news conference. Reagan's fumbling performance in that encounter with reporters helped contribute to a sharp decline in his job approval rating in various public opinion polls. Since the November 19 news conference, Reagan --who maintains he knew nothing about the contra diversion -- has revised his position on his covert Iran policy. Reuter 
SOVIETS SAID TO SEE NEW FLOOR FOR GRAIN OUTPUT

The intensive technology concept for grain production has put a new floor under USSR grain production, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Moscow said in a field report. The report, quoting a broadcast on Radio Moscow, said that due to intensive technology grain production in a "bad year" will not fall below 200 mln tonnes, and in a "good year" grain production could reach 250 mln tonnes. The U.S. Agriculture Department currently forecasts this year's USSR crop at 210.1 mln tonnes, and if realized this would be the third year since 1975 that the Soviet Union's grain harvest has exceeded 200.0 mln tonnes. The largest crop since 1975 was 237.4 mln tonnes harvested in 1978, according to USDA data. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS BANK LOANS TOO SLOW

Treasury Secretary James Baker, while defending the progress of his 1985 debt initiative, conceded that lending by commercial banks to developing countries has not gone as fast as the administration would have liked. In testimony before a House Appropriations subcommittee, Baker said, however, "I think it is wrong to say that (commercial bank lending) has not occured in a meaningful way." He added though that it has not "materialized as fast as we would have liked." The Treasury secretary also said that it would be politically wrong for the United States or other countries to guarantee loans made by commercial banks to the developing country debtors because that would be "rightly perceived as a bank bailout." Baker also said that it would be impractical for governments to mandate bank lending to the third world since this would have the eventual impact of turning commercial banks away from making all loans to the region. Reuter 
PACIFIC EXCHANGE OFFICIALS CONCLUDE CHINA TRIP

The Pacific Stock Exchange said officials of the exchange and other representatives from the U.S. concluded a 10-day trip to China to exchange information with Shanghai and Hong Kong financial executives. The exchange said the trip was to explore potential trading links between PSE and other Pacific Rim exchanges and to discuss growth of capital markets in the Far East. "This trip represents the PSE's first effort to provide technical assistance and begin cooperative relationships with exchanges and securities markets in the Pacific Rim," Maurice Mann, chairman of PSE, said in a statement. Reuter 
FED MAY SUPPLY RESERVES IN THE MONEY MARKETS

There is a slightly better than even chance that the Federal Reserve will enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves, economists said. They said the Fed would supply the reserves indirectly via around 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged 6.25 pct yesterday, opened at 6-1/16 pct and moved in a narrow range between there and six pct in early trading. Reuter 
BALDRIGE PREDICTS SOLID U.S. HOUSING GROWTH

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted 1987 will be the fifth successive year for growth in housing starts after a 2.6 pct rise overall in February starts to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.851 mln units. "This year should be the fifth solid year in a row for homebuilding activity -- with single-family units stronger than multi-family units," he said in a statement. Single-family starts rose last month from January levels by 5.6 pct to 1.317 mln units on a seasonally adjusted basis while multi-family unit starts fell 4.1 pct to 534,000 units, the department said. Reuter 
KANSAS LEGISLATOR TO OFFER U.S. 0/92 BILL TODAY

U.S. Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., chairman of the House Agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains, said he would today introduce a bill to apply the so-called 0/92 concept to wheat and feedgrains producers. Glickman told Reuters the measure would allow 1987 winter wheat producers and 1988 feedgrains producers the possibility of receiving no less than 92 pct of their income support payments regardless of how much acreage they planted. He also said his bill would protect program participants from reduced income payments in the event market prices rose above the loan rate. Reuter 
DIVI HOTELS <DVH> WARRANTTRADE ON AMEX

Divi Hotels NV of Aruba said its warrants have started trading today on the <American Stock Exchange>. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS U.S. OPPOSES SOVIET BANK MEMBERSHIP

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the U.S. opposes Soviet membership of the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. Baker told a House foreign affairs subcommittee, "I think our position is absolutely clear on that ... We do not support and will not support Soviet membership in the World Bank or the IMF." Baker said the U.S. position was "unqualified and unconditional." The secretary observed that he has written to congressman Jack Kemp, a New York Republican who is also a presidential contender, outlining the U.S. position. Baker was responding to a questioner who noted that World Bank President Barber Conable has in the past suggested future Soviet membership could take place. Ever since Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev suggested Soviet membership in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade -- which was also rejected -- there has been speculation Moscow was interested in joining the international institutions. Reuter 
SHEARSON LEHMAN UPGRADES U.S. OIL STOCKS

Analyst Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers said he recommended a number of oil stocks today now that it is apparent that OPEC has succeeded in holding to its prescribed production quotas. "It is clear that OPEC, through jawboning and quota restraint, will boost the price of oil," Margoshes said. Prices of oil stocks rose sharply today in response to higher oil prices and optimism about OPEC quotas. Margoshes said he recommends Imperial Oil <IMO.A>, up 1/2 to 49-1/8, Standard Oil Co <SRD>, 7/8 to 62-3/4, Exxon <XON> one to 83-1/8, and Chevron <CHV> 1-1/8 to 54-7/8. In addition, Margoshes said he recommended Atlantic Richfield <ARC> on a short-term basis, though he said he is still suspect about its debt situation. Atlantic Richfield rose 1-3/4 to 77. He said "the market could come down to test the 16 dlr a barrel level again, but the main thrust of investing in oil is positive right now. Before the year is out we will see higher oil prices." He noted that belief that the government is interested in raising the strategic reserves is factored into the rise in oil stocks today. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER CALLS FOR NEW BRAZIL PLAN

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that Brazil should come up with a new economic plan if it hopes to get additional assistance from commercial banks and others. In testimony before a House appropriations subcommittee, Baker said that he had given that message to Brazilian officials earlier this month when they met for talks in Washington. He said that the so-called Cruzado Plan had worked for a while, but that new efforts by the government are now required. Baker made it clear that he backed the decision by the Paris Club official creditors to reschedule loans to Brazil, even though the country later froze its payments to commercial bank creditors. He said that the official loans are being serviced and that this was a result of the rescheduling. Reuter 
CALIFORNIA MICRO <CAMD> TRADES ON NASDAQ

California Micro Devices Corp said its stock was included in the March 17 expansion of the NASDAQ market system. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS U.S. NOT SEEKING IADB VETO

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that the United States was not seeking loan veto in its negotiation for voting power at the Inter-American Development Bank. Discussing the ongoing negotiation, Baker said the U.S. position is that the countries that pay in the most should have the greatest say over the loan decisions. The U.S. is seeking the power to block loan votes with one other country, and the issue will be discussed in Miami later this month at the annual meeting of the Latin development bank. Reuter 
NYSE REVIEWS PROGRAM TRADING

The <New York Stock Exchange> said it is undertaking a review of the long-term effects on securities markets of computer-driven trading techniques known as program trading. The NYSE said, "The study will review major new trading techniques involving programmed portfolio hedging and index arbitrage for their potential benefits and risks to the financial system. It will also explore the regulatory implications of these trading techniques and whether their increased use could possibly lead to market abuse." The exchange said a final report is expected before the end of 1987. It said program trading is becoming increasingly important as a market factor. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
BANKAMERICA <BAC> MAY RECLASSIFY BRAZIL LOANS

BankAmerica Corp may place its long-term loans to Brazil on nonaccrual status if Brazil continues to defer interest payments on the loans, the bank holding company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. BankAmerica said its outstanding loans to Brazil currently total about 2.7 billion dlrs, including about 1.5 billion dlrs in long-term loans and 1.2 billion dlrs in short-term loans. The Brazilian government announced in February its intention to stop paying interest temporarily on its long-term public and private sector commercial bank debt. "Continued deferral of interest payment on these obligations could result in the loans being placed on nonaccrual status," the banking firm said. BankAmerica said its outstanding loans to Mexico currently total about 2.5 billion dlrs, of which about 215 mln dlrs of loans have been reported as either nonaccrual or past due 90 days or more. Outstanding loans to Venezuela currently total about 1.3 billion dlrs, of which 241 mln dlrs of loans have been reported as either nonaccrual or past due 90 days or more, it said. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> MAY CLOSE ONE FRENCH REFINERY

Exxon Corp, the world's largest oil company, said in a published interview today that it was reviewing its worldwide refinery operations and might decide to close on of its french refineries. Lee R. Raymond, Exxon's new president, singled out the possibility of a closure of one of Exxon's refineries in France during the interview. An Exxon spokeswoman confirmed that Raymond had specifically mentioned refineries in France but said that no specific refinery had been named. She also said that all of Exxon's opertations were under constant review. Exxon currently has two refineries in France, FOS in the mediterranean with a capcity of 175,000 barrels per day and Port Jerome west of paris with a similar capacity. Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, an influential trade journal, said, in its current issue, that they understood that Exxon was looking at the possibility of refinery closures in Antwerp, Southern France or possibly Italy. Paul Mlotok, oil analyst with Salomon Brothers inc said that with the closures Exxon made in 1986 in Europe and the improvement in the European refining situation, its future profits there should be good. "Exxon and other major oil companies have closed a bunch of refineries in Europe, upgraded the rest and shaken many of the indepedents out of the market. Now with demand for products rising and efficient operations, Exxon should show superior earnings," Mlotok said. "Just after Royal Dutch <RD>, they are seen as one of the highest grade refiners in Europe," he added. Industry sources said that the oil companies were likely to feel greater pressure on their operations in Southern Europe where competition from the OPEC countries is increasing as these producers move further into downstream operations. PIW said that refiners in the Mediterranean can expect increased shipments from Saudi Arabia and other OPEC export refineries. PIW said "sales from Libya, Algeria and elsewhere are expected to reclaim markets lost to Italian and other European refiners as a result of the abundance of cheap netback oil last year." Reuter 
BAKER SAYS U.S. OPPOSES SOVIET BANK MEMBERSHIP

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said the U.S. opposes Soviet membership of the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund. Baker told a House foreign affairs subcommittee, "I think our position is absolutely clear on that ... We do not support and will not support Soviet membership in the World Bank or the IMF." Baker said the U.S. position was "unqualified and unconditional." Baker was responding to a questioner who noted that World Bank President Barber Conable has in the past suggested future Soviet membership could take place. Reuter 
ITALY STANCE ON EC OILS TAX NOT ENCOURAGING-ASA

Italy's response to protests by U.S. Soybean producers about the proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats had not been encouraging, American Soybean Association (ASA) board chairman George Fluegel said. Fluegel, heading one of three U.S. Soybean producer delegations currently on a lobbying tour of EC countries, told Reuters in an interview meetings with officials from the Italian Foreign and Agricultural ministries had not yielded much to encourage hopes that Italy would vote against the proposed tax. Fluegel said his delegation had received a negative response from the Italian Agriculture Ministry, but that the attitude of the Foreign Ministry appeared "more realistic." He said the proposed tax was discriminatory against U.S. Farmers since it was basically asking them to help finance the EC's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) on oilseeds. Asked which EC countries might be expected to vote against the proposed tax, he said, "Realistically, from the information we're getting, it looks like the English, the Germans, hopefully the Netherlands and Denmark." His delegation also hoped to convince Belgium to vote against the issue, he added. Asked what form he thought U.S. Retaliatory action might take in the event of the EC tax proposal being approved, Fluegel said industrial as well as agricultural products could be involved. U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng warned the EC yesterday it would face serious retaliation if it enacted the tax. ASA president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague American soybean producers were confident the proposed tax would be rejected. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS U.S. NOT SEEKING IADB VETO

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States was not seeking loan veto in its negotiation for voting power at the Inter-American Development Bank. Discussing the ongoing negotiation, Baker said the U.S. position is that the countries that pay in the most should have the greatest say over the loan decisions. The U.S. is seeking the power to block loan votes with one other country, and the issue will be discussed in Miami later this month at the annual meeting of the Latin development bank. Reuter 
BALDRIGE PREDICTS SOLID U.S. HOUSING GROWTH

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige predicted 1987 will be the fifth successive year for growth in housing starts after a 2.6 pct rise overall in February starts to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.851 mln units. "This year should be the fifth solid year in a row for homebuilding activity -- with single-family units stronger than multi-family units," he said in a statement. Single-family starts rose last month from January levels by 5.6 pct to 1.317 mln units on a seasonally adjusted basis while multi-family unit starts fell 4.1 pct to 534,000 units, the department reported. Reuter 
NYSE OPTION TRADING RIGHTS SEAT SALE

THe New York STock Exchange said an option trading rights seat sold for 40,000 dlrs, off 5,000 dlrs from the previous sale on January 29. The Exchange said the current bid is 35,000 dlrs, the last offer is for 45,000 dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE TARGETING PROPOSAL SPARKS INTEREST

A proposal by two U.S. House Democrats to target government farm benefits to small- and medium-sized farms was warmly received by Democrats on a House subcommittee today. "On balance, this is the best new idea I have seen," said Rep. Dan Glickman (D-Kan.), Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Wheat, Feedgrains and Soybeans. "This is the first hard constructive proposal coming out as an alternative to the (Reagan) administration's farm proposal." The plan, offered by Reps. Tim Penny (D-Minn.) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND), would raise target prices for wheat to 5.00 dlrs per bushel and for corn to 3.50 dlrs. Producers could receive deficiency payments on up to 80 pct of normal yield but not more than on 30,000 bu of corn and 20,000 bu of wheat. The proposal also would require acreage reductions of 20 pct, eliminate generic certificates and prohibit persons not actively engaged in farming from receiving program benefits. Dorgan said the bill would save 24 billion dlrs over five years, protect family farms and eliminate government accumulation of stocks because nonrecourse loans would be halted. However, Rep. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) said the measure would "involve the federal government in deciding and defining who a family farmer is." Roberts said the bill, for example, would restrict program payments to 500 acres of wheat production in western Kansas. Other Republicans on the panel questioned how the bill would determine if a person was actively engaged in farming and therefore eligible for payments. Reuter 
NYSE TO REVIEW PROGRAM TRADING

The New York Stock Exchange said it will review the long-term effects on securities markets of computer-driven trading techniques known as program trading. The NYSE said, "The study will review major new trading techniques involving programmed portfolio hedging and index arbitrage for their potential benefits and risks to the financial system. "It will also explore the regulatory implications of these trading techniques and whether their increased use could possibly lead to market abuse." The exchange said a final report is expected before the end of 1987. It said program trading is becoming increasingly important as a market factor. Reuter 
AMEX CALLS FOR UNIFORM EXPIRATION PROCEDURES

The American Stock Exchange said it is prepared to move settlement prices for its broad-based stock index contracts to the stock market opening on expiration Fridays providing the change is part of an industry-wide move to a uniform system. "We believe it is in the best interests of the industry for all markets to participate in a coordinated move to base expiration Friday settlement prices on the stock market opening," Amex president Kenneth Leibler said in a statmenet. He said non-uniform procedures will lead to "market and investor confusion." Leibler said expirations based on openings "appears to offer greater opportunities than the close to most efficiently handle any order imbalances which may occur on expiration Fridays." He said the markets would have the remainder of the trading day to correct any "price dislocations" that occur. Market analysts have attributed some wide swings in the stock market in part to arbitrage activity involving index options and futures and individual stocks. Options on the Major Market Index and the Institutional Index, which now expire at the close, are traded on the Amex. Reuter 
PLAINS <PLNS> POSTS RESERVES INCREASES

Plains Resources Inc said that as of December 31, its estimated proved oil and gas reserves rose by 27 pct to 5.43 mln barrels from 4.27 mln barrels and proved developed reserves rose 16 pct to four mln barrels from 3.45 mln barrels a year ago. The company said its year end reserves did not include the oil and gas reserves of Houston Oil Fields Co which recently agreed to merge with it, pending shareholder approval in mid-April. If approved, the merger will add another 3.2 mln barrels to the company's reserve base. Reuter 
CHINA CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Light, scattered showers covered winter wheat areas in the North China Plain in the week ended March 14, moistening topsoils for wheat, just breaking dormancy in most central and northern areas, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International Weather and Crop summary, the agency said southern winter wheat areas are in the early vegetative stage. Above-normal February temperatures over the North China Plain caused winter grains to break dormancy early in the south. Moderate to heavy rains in southern Jiangsu, Anhui, eastern Hebei, Hunan , Jiangxi, Fujian, and Zheziang, reversed February's below normal precipitation pattern. The agency said the wet weather in these areas provided ample moisture for rice planting and lessened the need for irrigation. Mostly dry weather in early-rice areas of Guanxi and Guandong resulted in irrigation for continued rice planting, it said. Reuter 
BRAZIL CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Wet weather covered Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil in the week ended March 14, benefitting soybeans which are mostly setting to filling pods, the Joint Agricultural weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said minimal precipitation covered soybean areas in Santa Catarina, Parana, and southern Matto Grosso do Sul. Adequate soil moisture in these areas met crop moisture demands, reducing the potential for crop stress, it said. The agency said February precipitation was above normal over most soybean areas of Brazil. Weekly temperatures were below normal, it said. Reuter 
ARGENTINA CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Precipitation diminished over Argentina's summer crop areas in the week ended March 14, the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments Joint Weather Facility said. In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said crop areas in Cordoba, Santa Fe, and Buenos Aires received only light scattered showers -- three to 13 millimeters. The beneficial drier weather allowed drying of fields for summer crop harvesting, following February's heavy rainfall, it said. Reuter 
U.S. WARNS OF DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL

A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging implications for national security. The Energy Department study discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes no recommendations. President Reagan and most Congressmen have previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and to help the depressed domestic oil industry. Energy Secretary John Herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." The report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S. consumption and by the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. Among the report's options to ease U.S. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the Reagan Administration. President Reagan ordered the study last September, citing a determination that the country never again become captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. The report said an import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for U.S. oil firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. reuter 
U.S OIL TAX WOULD NOT AFFECT PDVSA-CHAMPLIN DEAL

an eventual oil import fee in the united states will make no difference to champlin petroleum corp's joint venture agreement signed today with petroleos de venezuela (pdvsa), champlin chairman william adams said. "this was an aspect which was discussed at length during the negotiations, but we can say our contract covers all eventualities in this regard," he told reuters during the signing ceremony here. Venezuela's energy and mines minister arturo hernandez grisanti earlier described the agreement, under which pdvsa buys 50 pct of champlin's corpus christi refinery, as "one more step in the maturation and presence of our oil industry in world markets." union pacific chairman william cook said the agreement will be beneficial to both sides, combining a secure source of supply with a modern refinery and access to markets. "we are looking to a long-term relationship, and at a time of protectionist tendencies in the U.S. Congress there are clear benefits to both sides," he said. Adams said pdvsa crude would remain competitive even with an oil import fee because champlin had invested heavily over the years in adapingthe texas refinery to process venezuelan heavy crudes with coking and hydro-treating facilities and obtain a competitive product yield. "therefore while the danger of an oil import fee has been a consideration in the negotiations, and it remains to be seen what such a fee would represent, we do not foresee any impact on today's agreement," adams said. He said the refinery could run crude as heavy as venezuela's bolivar coastal field (bcf) 17 api without any difficultiesand would probably move over time to a heavier diet to take advantage of bigger margins. The refinery has a capacity to process up to 110,000 bpd of venezuelan high sulphur content heavy crude, with an 80-85 pct yield of white products. Reuter 
LYNG TO MEET WITH EXPORTERS, EEP LIKELY TOPIC

Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng will meet with representatives from major grain exporting companies today, and the subject of subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union will likely be discussed, an aide to Lyng said. Today's meeting, set to begin at 1500 EST (2000 gmt), was scheduled at the request of the exporters, the aide said. "The EEP (export enhancement program) is pretty obviously one of the things they (the exporters) want to talk about, but they haven't any agenda as far as I know," Lyng's aide said. Private industry export officials have met periodically with Lyng to discuss farm policies and the export situation. Whether this meeting will prompt any U.S. action on the issue of whether Moscow will be offered export bonus wheat is uncertain, the aide said. "I don't know what they'll tell us that we don't already knwo, but we'll hear what they have to say," Lyng's aide said. The USDA official said that as far as he knows there has been no further action on offering the Soviet Union wheat under the EEP. Reuter 
AMEX OPTIONS SEAT SOLD FOR RECORD AMOUNT

American Stock Exchange said a seat was sold yesterday for 315,000 dlrs, a record amount and up 10,000 dlrs from the last sale on March Three, which had been the record. The market is now 275,000 dlrs bid and 340,000 dlrs offered, it said. Reuter 
CMS ADVERTISING NEGOTIATES CANADIAN VENTURE

<CMS Adversiting Inc> said it is in preliminary discussions with a Canadian group with "extensive franchise experience" for a joint venture to start up a majority-owned CMS Canadian subsidiary called CMA Advertising International of Canada. CMS also said the group intends to seek an undertaker to investigate a possible stock offering ot the subsidiary. Reuter 
HERRINGTON SAYS HE MAY CALL FOR OIL TAX BENEFITS

Energy Secretary John Herrington said he may recommend to the White House that the domestic oil industry be given tax benefits to help it produce more oil and head off increasing U.S. dependence on foreign oil. He said also at a news conference that he would recommend to the White House that the fill rate of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be increased from its planned 35,000 barrels per day. The oil reserve fill rate capacity is 100,000 barrels a day. Herrington said he had always advocated a greater fill rate for the petroleum reserve, but the rate had been kept down because of budgetary constraints. Herrington did not disclose what tax incentives he might advocate, but U.S. officials have shown interest in tax benefits for oil and gas exploration and for research and development into new ways to extract oil which is now considered uneconomical to produce. He made the remarks in conjunction with the release of the Energy Department's study on oil's impact on national security. Herrington said that before he disclosed what recommendations for tax benefits for the oil and gas industry he might make, he would raise the matter with the White House Economic Policy Committee to see if the proposals to increase oil production made good tax policy. He said he would like to increase U.S. production by one mln barrels a day. The report said that by the end of the century the United States may be relying on foreign sources for 50 pct of its oil consumption, posing a serious economic and national security threat. Reuter 
WAINCO OIL <WOL> COMPLETES WILDCAT WELL

Wainco Oil Corp said it has completed a wildcat well on its GrandMarais prspect in Jefferson Davis Parish, La., which is currently producing at a rate of 1.1 mln cubic feet of gas and 40 barrels of condensate daily. The company said it has a 20 pct working interest in the well which is flowing from Lower Frion Tweedel Sand perforations between 10,104 and 10,110 feet. Additional untested but possibly productive zones exist behind the pipe, it added. It said the remaining owners are privately held petroleum companies. Reuter 
U.S. WARNS OF DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN OIL

A White House-ordered report said that growing U.S. reliance on foreign oil into the year 2000 could have potentially damaging implications for national security. The Energy Department study discusses several options to curb reliance on foreign oil, but makes no recommendations. President Reagan and most Congressmen have previously ruled out a tax on foreign oil as a way to curb imports and to help the depressed domestic oil industry. Energy Secretary John Herrington said in a statement that "although we have made gains in energy security in the last six years, this report shows that there is justification for national concern both over declining competitiveness of our domestic oil and gas industry and over rising oil imports." The report said imports last year were 33 pct of U.S. consumption and by the mid-1990s could rise to 50 pct. Among the report's options to ease U.S. reliance on foreign oil are several already advocated by the Reagan Administration. President Reagan ordered the study last September, citing a determination that the country never again become captive to a foreign oil cartel, referring to the OPEC-led oil shortages and sharp prices increases of the 1970s. The report said an import fee would raise prices and help make it economical for U.S. oil firms to find and produce new oil, as well as to cut imports, but on the whole the tax would depress the nation's economy. The study was outlined in a New York Times report today. Reuter 
U.S. FHL BANKS SETS RATES ON DEBT OFFERING

The Office of Finance, Federal Home Loan Banks, said it set rates on today's debt offering of 6.70 pct on its 1.11 billion dlr issue, 7.10 pct on a 1.065 billion dlr issue and 7.65 pct on a 375 mln dlr issue. It said the issues, which are for settlement March 25, mature March 26, 1990, March 25, 1992 and March 25, 1997, respectively. The office said telephone confirmation of allotments must be received by 1500 hrs EST today and that secondary trading will begin at 0930 hrs EST tomorrow. Reuter 
ROSTENKOWSKI SAYS TAX HIKE NEEDS REAGAN SUPPORT

House Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski said he was ready to support an 18 billion dlr tax increase to help balance the budget but doubted it could pass Congress without President Reagan's support. Rostenkowski, the chief House taxwriter, said his committee was reluctant to back a tax increase without certainty that it would pass the full House and this would require Republican votes. "Chairman Rostenkowski still says its an uphill fight unless the president signs on," the Illinois Democrat said in remarks for delivery to the Tax Executives Institute. Rostenkowski predicted the tax increase will concentrate on increases in federal excise taxes while leaving the income tax intact. The taxwriters will not consider delaying the income tax rate cuts for upper income persons scheduled to take effect in 1988, he said. The top rate will fall from 38.5 pct to 28 pct next year. In addition, he said "they don't have the energy or appetite to endorse a radical new tax like a VAT (value added tax)," which he also opposes. "The real question is where the Republicans will be when the tough vote comes," he said. Rostenkowski said his committee will not approve any tax credits to provide incentives for exports as part of a tax or trade bill this year. He added that no extension or expansion of the research and development tax credit for business is expected since it would cost billions of dollars. And, Rostenkowski told the tax executives that Howard Baker as Reagan's chief of staff would make it more likely the White House will ultimately back a tax increase this year. "There are strong suspicions that the Baker boys will lead the president down the slippery slope of moderation," he said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSING DATA FAIL TO CLARIFY ECONOMIC PATH

Surprisingly strong U.S. housing statistics for February cannot be taken as an indication that the economy is generating any momentum and are not sufficient cause to start lifting forecasts for first quarter growth, economists said. Building was boosted by two factors last month, unusually mild weather and low mortgage rates. But economists said that seasonal factors make it hard to assess what spur to the economy, if any, will come from housing in coming months. And after a steady retreat, mortgage rates seem to be near bottom. U.S. housing starts rose 2.6 pct in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.851 mln units from 1.804 mln in January. It was the highest pace for starts since April 1986. The rate at which permits were issued for future building climbed 4.4 pct to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.764 mln units after dropping 11.52 pct to 1.690 mln in January. "February's weather is usually more adverse for home building. Because of seasonal factors it's difficult to determine what this means for the economy down the road," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. The housing report is seasonally-weighted to compensate for weather-related setbacks. As a result, milder temperatures inflate the statistics. Economists said that low mortgage rates also were a spur to building last month. But several believe that rates will now consolidate before edging up in late spring/early summer. "Builders are looking at current mortgage rates and saying 'Let's do it now'," said Mark Obrinsky of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions in Washington, whose members supply much of the financing for home building. But Obrinsky doubts that there is much more downward potential for rates because he foresees higher inflation and some overall improvement in the U.S. economy. He expects rates to gain 50 to 100 basis points in early summer from the 9.50 pct fixed rate effective in February. Last November, fixed rate mortgages were about 10.30 pct. As expected, the strength in housing was concentrated in the single-family sector. The multi-family area -- which typically represents rental units -- remained weak due to high vacancy rates and increased capital costs of such units following tax law changes effective January 1. Single-family starts rose at a 5.6 pct annual pace to 1.317 mln units. Multi-family fell 4.1 pct to a 534,000 rate. "Strength in the single-family sector indicates that low mortgage rates are doing their job. But we're probably not looking at a great deal of growth potential," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. McCarthy noted that the housing report, together with larger than expected gains in U.S. employment, industrial output and retail sales in February, may cause some observers to start waving "four pct GNP banners" for the first quarter. Gross national product grew 1.3 pct in the fourth quarter. But McCarthy, who still expects first quarter real GNP to come in at an annual rate of 2.5 pct or slightly above, is not convinced that growth will pick up in future. "The big story is the inventory re-building that's going on now, not all of which is intentional," he said. For example, U.S. automakers, who are already saddled with high stocks, produced at an annual rate of 8.3 mln units in February compared with domestic car sales of 7.3 mln. Thus while inventories could contribute to GNP in the first quarter, they may result in scaled-back production and weaker growth in the second, he said. "If most of the first quarter growth is inventory building and we cannot identify any improvement in export demand, then there is the potential for softness in the second quarter," agreed Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. He is still evaluating first quarter GNP prospects. Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker said last week that current data do not show the worsening in trade has reversed. "At the same time that we are pumping up inventories in the first quarter, we could foresee production slowing in the second," cautioned Joe Plocek of McCarthy, Crisanti and Maffei Inc, who expects first quarter growth of about three pct. Reuter 
NASDAQ HALT - ALLEGHENY BEVERAGE CORP <ABEV>, NEWS PENDING,LAST 4-3/4



HYDRO-QUEBEC IN HEARINGS FOR U.S. POWER EXPORTS

Hydro-Quebec, the provincially-owned utility, said it is appearing this week before the National Energy Board to defend its application to export about five billion Canadian dlrs worth of electricity to the New England states. The contract with the New England Power Pool was signed in 1985 and runs from 1990 to 1999. A spokesman for the Quebec utility said hearings are normally held on major contracts up to two years after the deal is signed. Hydro-Quebec, which last month agreed to sell 15 billion dlrs worth of power to Maine starting in 1992, has to convince the board the electricity is surplus to Canadian needs. Utilities in at least three Canadian provinces have said they are opposing the New England deal. The Ontario and New Brunswick utilities said they are objecting because Hydro-Quebec did not offer them the electricity before going to the New England Power Pool. New Brunswick said it is also concerned that Hydro-Quebec is taking all the U.S. export markets. Hydro-Quebec spokesman Maurice Hebert said several provinces, including Newfoundland which wants to renogotiate a power agreement with Quebec, routinely oppose the Quebec utility's export contracts. Hebert said the National Energy Board has ordered changes to contracts in the past but has always left the agreements essentially intact. He said the utility was not prepared to comment on whether it believed the board would call for substantial changes to the agreement with New England. He said the hearings, which began today, will probably last two or three days and a decision made in about two weeks. Hydro-Quebec has recently been trying to move from export contracts for surplus energy to contracts for guaranteed amounts of energy, such as the deal signed with Maine. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE APPROVES PILOT 0/92 DISASTER PROGRAM

The House of Representatives approved a bill to enable 1987 winter wheat and feedgrains farmers hit by midwestern flooding last year to receive at least 92 pct of their federal income support payments even if they did not plant. The one-time pilot 0/92 program, designed to assist farmers in Kansas, Oklahoma, Michigan and parts of Missouri, was passed by a 304-100 vote and sent to the Senate. Although the bill includes a narrow version of the 0/92 provision endorsed by the Reagan administration, the U.S. Agriculture Department withheld its support from the measure. USDA said the bill would discourage farmers from buying crop insurance and fall short of the administration's proposed broad-scale revision of farm programs. The bill would permit winter wheat producers prevented from planting their 1987 crop last fall to receive 92 pct of the deficiency payments they would have received. To be eligible, winter wheat farmers could not plant a different crop on that land this spring, although they could use the land for grazing or to plant hay. USDA estimated this provision would save 30 mln dlrs, largely because of reduced crop forfeitures. The bill also would aid about 200 feedgrains producers along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers who were prevented from planting crops this year because of residual damage from last fall's flooding. In addition, the measure would require USDA to make full payment to farmers eligible for emergency assistance approved by Congress last fall. Currently, because claims have outstripped the 400 mln dlrs in appropriated funds, USDA plans to offer farmers in the region 74 cents for every dollar in disaster losses. The administration said it opposed the bill because, by expanding the 400 mln dlrs in disaster relief, it would thwart efforts to encourage farmers to buy crop insurance as an alternative to federal disaster assistance. USDA also said the 0/92 provisions in the bill were narrower than the administration's proposal to offer the option to all major commodities and would produce insignificant savings. USDA said the 0/92 option for 1987 winter wheat farmers would produce a net savings of about 30 mln dlrs, while the requirement to compensate fully disaster-struck farmers would cost about 135 mln dlrs, which must be appropriated by Congress. The feedgrains provision would cost about five mln dlrs. USDA estimated the overall cost of the bill to be 111 mln dlrs. In January the Senate approved a bill that would make 1987 winter wheat farmers eligible for disaster assistance payments. But the Senate bill would not offer the 0/92 option to wheat and feedgrains producers or raise the 400-mln dlr ceiling on the disaster assistance program. Reuter 
HONDURAS AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 COMMODITIES

Honduras has been authorized to buy about 75,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat, about 15,000 tonnes of U.S. corn, and about 6,000 tonnes of U.S. tallow under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said it may buy the wheat, valued at 8.5 mln dlrs, the corn, valued at 1.5 mln, and the tallow, valued at 2.0 mln dlrs, between March 24 and August 31, 1987, and ship it from U.S. ports and/or Canadian transshipment points by this September 30. The purchase authorizations cover the entire quantity provided under the agreement, signed March 11. Reuter 
USDA REPORTS 350,000 TONNES CORN TO UNKNOWN

The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported sales of 350,000 tonnes of corn for delivery to unknown destinations during the 1986/87 marketing season. The marketing year for corn began September 1. This is the second day running that exporters have reported corn sales to unknown destinations. Yesterday, they reported sales of 150,000 tonnes to unknown. Reuter 
NYSE CLARIFIES TRIPLE WITCHING PROCEDURE

The New York stock exchange said its rules for triple expiration Friday permit entering arbitrage-related market-on-close orders in the final 30 minutes of trading providing they are on the other side of imbalances and providing they open positions. The NYSE clarified a statement released yesterday in which it detailed procedures to be followed this Friday when stock index options, index futures and individual stock options expire simultaneously. The NYSE said it will not allow a market-on-close order after 1530 EST Friday that increases or liquidates an existing arbitrage position. The NYSE in cooperation with the Securities and Exchange commission will publicize imbalances of 10,000 or more shares in the 50 stocks beginning at 1530 EST Friday. In the final 30 minutes of trading Friday any market-on-close orders must be on the other side of the imbalance. Reuter 
U.S. CERTIFICATES TO PROVIDE WHEAT/CORN SUPPLIES

From April through December 1986, the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) issued 3.85 billion dlrs worth of generic certificates and about 1.8 billion had not been exchanged by January 1, 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said an additional 4.3 billion dlrs in certificates has been authorized for issuance during January-August, 1987. These certificates will provide ample free supplies of corn and wheat for the remainder of the crop year, the department said in a summary of its Agricultural Outlook report. Freeing of stocks through certificates is making U.S. grain more competitive on world markets, it said. The department said last summer, for example, certificates were exchanged for 215 mln bushels of corn. This helped increase marketable supplies, so farm-level corn prices averaged about two dlrs per bushel -- somewhat lower than they would have otherwise. The lower prices probably led to an increase in usage of 40 to 50 mln bushels, it said. The department said government spending on farm programs in fiscal year 1987 is projected to fall half a billion dlrs from 1986's 25.8 billion dlrs. During 1988 and 1989, the cost escalation of the first half of the 1980's will reverse. If current policy remains in force, annual farm program spending by 1992 will be down from last year's record by more than eight billion dlrs, it said. The department said the President's budget proposals for 1988-1992 would cut farm program spending an additional 24 billion dlrs. In 1987, foreign economic growth is expected to remain close to 2.6 pct, the same as in 1986, but above the 2.4 pct average of 1980-86, it said. Partially because of this improvement, U.S. export volume is expected to rise in fiscal 1987 for the frist time in seven years, the department said. Reuter 
SENATOR SAYS ENERGY REPORT ASSUMPTIONS FLAWED

Sen. Pete Domenici, a main sponsor of legislation to set an oil import fee, said the administration's energy security report was based on flawed economic assumptions. The New Mexico Republican said the report did not take into account the last few weeks' drop in domestic oil production in its statement that an oil fee would raise prices for consumers. The report said a decline in economic growth as a result of the fee would reduce tax revenues. "A five dlr (per barrel) oil import fee will provide the stimulus to create jobs and investment, " and raise revenues, he said. Reuter 
FARM PROGRAM CHANGES OUTLINED BY USDA OFFICIAL

Upcoming changes being considered in the U.S. Agriculture Department's transportation and loan programs were outlined by a USDA official today. Addressing the annual meeting of the National Grain and Feed Association, Tom VonGarlem, assistant deputy administrator for USDA's state and county operations, said the following changes are under consideration by USDA. Termination of USDA's Transportation Assistance Program for wheat, barley and sorghum would be proposed this week. Changes in USDA's reserve rotation program are also under consideration, VonGarlem said. While the department has not made any final decision, banning the use of pik and roll grain in reserve rotation is under heavy consideration, he said. Changes in loan rates will definitely be looked at for next year's crop, he said, with the option of making soybean loans partially in cash and in certificates under consideration. VanGarlem said he will definitely not extend the 1987 crop program signup, saying he sees no reason to do so at this time. He also said wheat will not be considered for a cash bonus under the Conservation Reserve Program. Reuter 
USDA OFFICIAL SEES 7-8 BILLION DLRS CERTIFICATES

There will be seven to eight billion dlrs of generic certificates on the market by the end of harvest, an Agriculture Department official said. The Commodity Credit Corp will "depend heavily" on certificates to relieve storage problems this year, Ralph Klopfenstein, Deputy Administrator for Commodity Operations, USDA, told participants at the National Grain and Feed Association's annual convention. Klopfenstein said that CCC will not be able to relocate grain in any significant amount this fall, so certificates will be used in various programs to relieve storage tightness. Klopfenstein said certificates meet the goal of allowing prices to go below loan levels and providing USDA with an inventory management tool. Reuter 
MAJOR U.S. FARM GROUPS OPPOSE POLICY CHANGES

Seven major U.S. farm groups took the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law. Following meetings with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la Garza (D-Tex.) and Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the groups issued a statement saying lawmakers should "resist efforts to overhaul the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop marketing year." The farm groups included the American Farm Bureau Federation, American Soybean Association, National Cattlemen's Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton Council, National Pork Producers Council and the U.S. Rice Producers Legislative Group. The statement said Congress should not modify the 1985 farm bill "so the law might have its intended impact of making agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the same time maintaining farm income." "We strongly believe American farmers now need predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing decisions," the groups said. Reuter 
SENATE BUDGET GROUP SHELVES REAGAN ECONOMIC DATA

The Senate Budget Committee, at its first budget drafting meeting of the year, discarded President Reagan's economic assumptions upon which he claims his budget would show a 108 billion dlr deficit. In its place, the committee agreed to accept the non partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) economic assumptions in its deliberations for drafting a 1988 budget. The CBO says Reagan's budget--even if it were adopted without change --would show a 134.4 billion dlr deficit in fiscal 1988 and thereby miss the Gramm-Rudman budget law target of 108 billion dlrs. Reuter 
CALIFORNIA MICRO DEVICES <CAMD> TRADES ON NMS

California Micro Devices Corp said its common stock is now listed on the expansion of the Nasdaq National Market System. The company said entry into NMS provides shareholders and other investors with last sale information and up-to-the-second volume information through stockbrokers. Reuter 
CONGRESSMAN URGES WHEAT EEP TO SOVIET UNION

Kansas Republican Congressman Pat Roberts urged the Reagan administration to offer export enhancement program, eep, subsidies to the Soviet Union. Speaking at a House foreign agriculture subcommittee, Roberts said the U.S. has offered eep to China and Poland, and should also include the Soviet Union. Rep. Roberts said there had been some talk that the issue of an eep to Moscow had not been raised within the Reagan administration recently because Secretary of State George Shultz was out of the country. "That very well may be the case," said Tom Kay, U.S. Agriculture Department Foreign Agricultural Service administrator. However, Kay told Reuters later that his reply to Roberts was not based on any particular knowledge. Rep. Roberts urged Kay to convey to top officials of the USDA that some in Congress favor a wheat eep to Moscow. "I'd be delighted to deliver the message," Kay replied. Earlier, Kay had repeated Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng's statement last week that "the door is not yet closed on an eep to the Soviet Union." Reuter 
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GAS STOCKS OFF IN WEEK

Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage fell by 7.35 mln barrels in the week ended March 13 to 112.74 mln barrels from a revised 120.09 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute (API) said. In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks fell 2.89 mln barrels to 248.44 mln barrels from a revised 251.33 mln, and crude oil stocks dropped 4.39 mln barrels to 325.13 mln from a revised 329.52 mln. It said residual fuel stocks fell 250,000 barrels to 35.73 mln from 35.98 mln barrels. API said refinery runs in the week rose to 11.80 mln barrels per day (bpd) from a revised 11.70 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 75.7 pct, up from a revised 75.0 pct. Crude oil imports in the week rose to 3.66 mln bpd from a revised 2.67 mln, API added. Reuter 
IBP (OXY) PLANT REOPENS WITHOUT INCIDENT

Iowa Beef Processors Inc said "hundreds" of its employees returned to work at its Dakota City, Nebraska beef processing plant without incident. Last week, Iowa Beef said it would lift a lockout in effect at the plant since mid-December, which affected 2,800 members of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. Both union and non-union meatpackers who returned to work, agreed to comply with Iowa Beef's last contract offer. "Start-up went well today and operations will continue to pick up as employees return and others are hired," according to a company statement. Picketing UFCWU members at the plant did not disrupt operations, a company spokesman said. "Our employees are asked to continue to return to work at 8AM unless otherwise notified," he said. Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, said it is beginning to take applications for permanent positions at the plant. Reuter 
LYNG SAID TO HAVE NO COMMENT ON USSR WHEAT EEP

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng told representatives of several of the largest grain exporting firms and two farm organizations that he was not in a position to comment on their request that the Reagan administration offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union, according to participants in today's meeting. "He (Lyng) simply told us he was not in any position to talk about an EEP (export enhancement program) initiative to the Soviet Union," said Glen Hofer, vice president of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives. Another participant in the meeting, who asked not to be identified, said Lyng was "unresponsive" to the group's request. Participants in the meeting included Cargill Inc, Continental Grain Co, Louis Dreyfus Corp, Union Equity Cooperative Exchange, the National Association of Wheat Growers, the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, among others, participants said. Deputy Agriculture Secretary Peter Myers and Under Secretary Daniel Amstutz also attended the 30-minute meeting. Hofer described Lyng as "sympathetic but noncommittal," and said he thought he detected "a sense of frustration" on Lyng's part at not being able to respond more positively to the group's urging. A grain industry representative said some participants were "puzzled" by USDA's apparent reluctance to bring before the cabinet council an EEP wheat offer to the Soviets. "There is a feeling that there is more receptivity (to the idea) within the cabinet council now than there ever has been," this official, who asked not to be identified, said, referring to an EEP wheat offer to the Soviets. This official said there was not a significant amount of pressure being exerted by lawmakers on Lyng to make an EEP offer to Moscow. Reminded that Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) had written two letters to Lyng urging such an offer, this official said Lyng had received virtually no phone calls from lawmakers on the subject. But Hofer said other important matters at the White House, rather than an absence of political pressure, might have restrained Lyng. Reuter 
U.S. OTC MARKET PROPOSES ONE-SHARE, ONE-VOTE

The National Association of Securities Dealers said all stock exchanges should require that listed companies adopt a "one-share, one-vote" rule, but with a few exceptions. In a letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD President Gordon Macklin said the group would be happy to be the first exchange to adopt a uniform rule but with certain exceptions. "Clearly the NASD would willingly be the first to do so. If a voluntary private sector resolution is not practical, then the commission should adopt the rule to apply to all markets," the NASD said. An NASD study found that 95 percent of the companies in the OTC offered only one class of stock. The NASD proposal calls for all stock markets to have a uniform rule which would emphasize the principle of equal voting rights, but allow for legitimate variations. The NASD would allow companies to issue shares that do not have voting rights as long as the limitation is clearly spelled out to investors. It wants to prevent listed companies from turning voting shares into non-voting shares, without shareholder approval, Parrillo said. "A uniform rule should be written to cure what has been construed by some to be an abusive practice involving the use of stock with other than full voting rights," the association said in the statement. Exceptions would include: -- shares in a registerd public offering where all facts connected with the company's capital structure are clearly spelled out in the prospectus. -- shares issued in connection with a merger, acquisition or recapitalization where the exchange of shares is accompanied by detailed proxy material. The NYSE rule would allow companies to have a dual class of stock only if a majority of publicly held shares and a majority of independent directors on the board approve the move. The NYSE has allowed its few listed companies which have dual classes to continue trading, pending approval from the SEC. The NASD specifically wants to disallow issuance of dual class shares where those with superior voting rights are not resalable. Parillo said such a provision would in effect prevent a firm from ever being purchased by anyone else. Reuter 
NY TIMES SAYS IRAN ARMS MONEY WENT TO KIDNAPPERS

Millions of dollars in proceeds from the sale of U.S. Arms to Iran were funneled to groups holding American hostages in Lebanon, the New York Times said. The newspaper, quoting U.S. Officials and others, said Iranian arms merchant Manucher Ghorbanifar, who served as a middleman in the sales, deposited two to three mln dlrs in the Swiss bank account of the Global Islamic Movement. The newspaper said the movement was a funding arm for various terrorist groups in Lebanon, including the Party of God or Hizbollah group which has been reported to be holding American hostages but has consistently denied the reports. The money was described as ransom by American and other associates of Ghorbanifar, the Times said, adding that an unnamed American official called it "payments for services rendered." The newspaper said the payments suggested the money may have been used to cover expenses incurred by the hostages' kidnappers. The newspaper also said that according to some accounts, Ghorbanifar paid Iranian officials and various groups as much as 10 mln dlrs. It said up to six mln dlrs went to Hojatoleslam Hashemi Rafsanjani, speaker of Iran's Parliament, and his family. REUTER 
MALAYSIAN FIRM WINS U.S. JET SERVICE CONTRACT

<Airod Sdn Bhd> said it won a contract from the U.S. Air Force to repair and service landing gear and airframe parts of General Dynamics Corp <GD.N> F-16 and McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD.N> F-4 jet fighters. The one-year contract, worth 1.3 mln ringgit, was signed recently and work is expected to begin soon, an Airod spokesman told Reuters. Airod is a joint venture between Lockheed Corp <LK.N> unit <Lockheed Aircraft Service International> and <Aerospace Industries Malaysia> Airod, which was set up in 1985, has a paid-up capital of 5.6 mln ringgit, the spokesman said. He said that under the contract, jet parts from U.S. Air Force bases in the Philippines, Japan and South Korea would be sent to Airod for servicing and repair. If the Air Force was satisfied with its performance, the contract could be extended, he said. Airod now services some Royal Malaysian Air Force and Indonesian Air Force aircraft, he said. Aerospace Industries is equally owned by the Malaysian government, Malaysian Airline System <MAIM.SI> and <United Motor Works Bhd>. REUTER 
TAIWAN BUYS 462,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE

The joint committee of Taiwan's maize importers awarded contracts to five U.S. Companies to supply a total of 462,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between May 10 and October 10, a committee spokesman said. Cigra Inc won a contract for a cargo of 56,000 tonnes, priced at 79.41 U.S. Dlrs per tonne fob pacific northwest port, for delivery on July 5 and 20. Continental Grain Co of New York received three shipments, totalling 143,000 tonnes, price ranging from 90.95 to 95.75 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 10 and October 10. Cargill Inc of Minnesota took two shipments, totalling 83,000 tonnes priced between 92.00 and 92.93 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for September 5-20/September 10-25 delivery. United Grain Corp of Oregon won three contracts to supply 93,000 tonnes priced from 92.32 to 93.19 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 10 and July 30. Garnac Grain Co Inc of New Jersey received two shipments, totalling 87,000 tonnes at 88.90 to 92.29 U.S dlrs c and f Taiwan for delivery between July 10 and August 10. REUTER 
TEXACO <TX> TO CEASE POSTING TEXAS OIL PRICE

Texaco Refining and Marketing, an operating subsidiary of Texaco Inc, said it would cease to post crude oil prices for West Texas crudes at the end of this month following a decision to discontinue purchase of crude oil from leases, a Texaco spokesman in Houston said. But it will continue to purchase quantities of U.S. and foreign crude oil for use in its refinery system, he added. The spokesman also said Texaco Trading and Transport Inc would continue to acquire and market Texaco lease production as well as other lease production. The company will continue to post a Louisiana price, it said. Reuter 
AMERICAN ADVENTURE <GOAAQ> HAS NASDAQ EXCEPTION

American Adventure Inc said its common stock will continue to be quoted on the NASDAQ system due to an exception from capital and surplus requirements, which it failed to meet as of January 20. The company said it believes it can meet conditions imposed for the exception but there is no assurance that it will be able to do so. Reuter 
COASTAL <CGP> SAYS TRANSAMERICAN SUIT FRIVOLOUS

Coastal Corp said it belives the two billion dlr suit against it by <TransAmerican Natural Gas Corp> in Texas state court is frivolous and without merit. The company said it intends toi proceed with filing a reorganization plan for TransAmerican with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Houston. Yesterday afternoon, the bankruptcy court issued a temporary restraining order prohibiting TransAmerican and Coastal from taking any action in any court that would interfere with the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court. Yesterday's bankruptcy court ruling affirmed Coastal's rights as a TransAmerican creditor to file a reorganization plan for TransAmerican. TransAmerican's suit alleges that Coastla attempted to unlawfully gain control of TransAmerican's Texas natural gas reserves and pipeline system. TransAmerican's bankruptcy proceedings began in 1983. Reuter 
U.S. REAL GNP ROSE 1.1 PCT IN FOURTH QUARTER

The U.S. Gross National Product, after removing the impact of inflation, increased at a revised annual rate of 1.1 pct in the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department said. That was down from an earlier preliminary 1.3 pct rise estimated a month ago and down from the 2.1 pct rise in the fourth quarter of 1985. The final fourth quarter revision, however, left unchanged the previous estimate of a 2.5 pct increase in GNP for all of 1986 over 1985. The revised estimate for fourth quarter GNP partly reflected a downward revision in inventories to a total decrease of 28.5 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, the department said. The revisions also indicated personal consumption spending decreased 2.2 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter after an increase of 39.6 billion dlrs in the third quarter. Exports of goods and services rose 15.3 billion dlrs after a decline of 9.4 billion dlrs in the third quarter. Imports decreased 700 mln dlrs in the final quarter, in contrast to an increase of 20.9 billion dlrs in the third quarter. REUTER 
BYRD SAYS CONTRA AID CRITICS WILL LOSE VOTE

Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd said he and other critics of Nicaragua rebel military aid will lose this afternoon an attempt to block 40 mln dlrs in funds to the contras. "We're going to lose today," the West Virginia Democrat told reporters. The Senate votes at 1600 est/2100 gmt on giving the U.S. backed rebels, also called contras, the last installment of a 40 mln dlr military aid package Congress voted last year. However, Byrd also said that he would continue to try to bring up for Senate action later this week a House-passed, six-month moratorium against further Nicaragua assistance until President Reagan accounts for missing funds previously voted by Congress and from the secret arms sales to Iran. Reuter 
ENVOY SEES BRIGHT ECONOMIC FUTURE FOR PHILIPPINES

The Philippines is poised for several years of stability and economic growth but faces major long-term problems from its rapidly increasing population, U.S. Ambassador Stephen Bosworth told Reuters in an interview. "Medium-term out to the 1990s I am increasingly optimistic about this country," he said. "But if you look beyond that... You are jumping off the edge into the unknown." Bosworth, who retires on April 2 after almost four years as U.S. Ambassador, forecast a real per capita increase in disposable income of more than four pct in 1987. The Philippines has not seen such an increase this decade. He said there were reasons to believe the Philippines could out-perform the world economy by enough to continue to generate increases in per capita income in the medium term. "There is nothing big and dramatic yet and maybe big and dramatic won't ever happen. But I think foreign investors are now no longer saying let's wait and see how the political side turns out," he said. Bosworth said much hope had been placed on the land reform program promised by President Corazon Aquino, but he warned it was not a complete cure for the country's ills. He said even the redistribution of land to tenant farmers would not be a substitute for the generation of new employment in the countryside."There is no way even in 1987 that this country can provide employment growth in farming. Certainly it is not going to be able to do so in the future," he added. "This has to be off-farm employment," he declared. Bosworth said the population problem produced major uncertainties for the future of the country. He said that more than 60 pct of today's 50 mln people are said to live below the poverty line and official predictions suggest the population will double within the next three decades. The ambassador said he believed population statistics to be understated. Bosworth said he expected current high domestic liquidity to be drawn down during the next six months with some corresponding upward pressure on interest rates, now at about nine pct. He said his predictions only assumed the Aquino government did not make any big mistakes. They did not assume any great transformation of the Philippine system. REUTER 
CATTLE BEING PLACED ON FEED LIGHTER THAN NORMAL

Most of the cattle now being placed on U.S. feedlots weigh less than normal and likely will remain on feed longer, spreading out marketings and supporting cattle prices through the summer because of reduced beef supply. The prospect of so many cattle remaining on feed for a longer time blunted the market impact of the high placements reported in the USDA's latest cattle on feed report, livestock analysts said. After the USDA released its report of cattle on feed in seven states as of March 1, cattle futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday rose sharply. The trade had expected deferred contracts to decline on the USDA report of a 15 pct rise in cattle placements in February from a year ago. Although the heavy placements were expected, analysts noted reports that many cattle put on feed were relatively lightweight and said feedlot operators would feed the lighter cattle into the autumn, rather than market them during the summer as would be the case with the heavier cattle normally placed on feed. Although reports of actual cattle weights are difficult to obtain, industry sources in the West and Southwest acknowledge that lighter cattle are being put on feedlots in their areas. The increase in lighter-weight cattle entering feedlots, helps explain the jump in feedlot placements last month from February, 1986. University of Missouri Agricultural Economist Glenn Grimes said, "The probabilities are high that in order to place that many cattle on feed they (feedlot operators) had to go to lighter-weight cattle. The only statistics available are from some terminal markets which represent only a small percentage of the total cattle marketed. But at those markets, steers averaged 708 lbs in February compared with 718 lbs last year, Grimes said. Even if marketing of the lighter cattle is not delayed, Grimes said, beef supply likely will be reduced. If the average weight is down, and there is no price weakness to delay marketings, the cattle would be marketed at lighter weights, which could reduce the beef supply as much as three pct. Bruce Ginn, cattle analyst for The Helming Group (formerly LBAS), said the lighter cattle are being placed on feed mainly because of two factors: low grain prices and higher live cattle prices. Many farmers like to feed lighter weight cattle and grain supplies are large, he noted. Also, the higher live cattle prices have been encouraging early movement of cattle from wheat pasture onto feedlots, Ginn said. Other analysts also noted that cattle are coming off wheat pasture sooner than normal because of poor pasture conditions. Gary Chapmann, a cash livestock trader for Chapmann and Graham in Sioux City, Iowa said he believed the general trend is to lighter weight placements but pasture conditions in his area benefited from a dry, mild winter. To the south, however, he said the weather was wetter and some cattle are coming off pasture weighing 75 to 100 lbs less than normal after having gained only 75 lbs all winter. Reuter 
N.Y. COCOA TRADERS STILL CAUTIOUS ON ICCO

New York cocoa traders reacted with caution to today's developments at the International Cocoa Organization talks in London, saying there is still time for negotiations to break down. "I would be extremely cautious to go either long or short at this point," said Jack Ward, president of the cocoa trading firm Barretto Peat. "If and when a final position comes out (of the ICCO talks) one will still have time to put on positions. The risk at the moment is not commensurate with the possible gain." ICCO producer and consumer delegates this morning accepted the outlines of a compromise proposal on buffer stock rules as a basis for further negotiation. A smaller group of representatives is now charged with fleshing out the details. "Market sentiment has reflected optimism, I would't put it any stronger than that," Ward said. "It seems to put them slightly closer to an agreement... but one shouldn't forget how much they have to negotiate," said another trader of today's developments. Many dealers were sidelined coming into the negotiations and have remained so, traders said. "The dealers have got historically small positions in outright terms," one trader said. Speculators have gone net long "but only slightly so," he added. The recent price strength -- gains of about 52 dlrs the last two days -- has been due in large part to sterling's rally against the dollar and in the process has attracted a measure of origin selling, traders said. Reuter 
REAGAN UPBEAT ABOUT LATEST GNP FIGURES

President Reagan said the 1.1 pct U.S. economic growth rate during the final quarter of 1986 "wasn't all that bad." The Commerce Department said the rate of growth of the Gross National Product in the October-December period was only slightly less than a preliminary estimate of 1.3 pct made earlier. At the same time, it said inflation, as measured by the GNP price deflator, rose by 0.7 pct during the period. Asked his reaction to the GNP report during a White House photo session, Reagan replied, "It wasn't all that bad." Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MONEY MARKET

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements, economists said. They said the below-six pct Federal funds rate suggests the Fed does not have a large reserve adding need. However, some dealers reportedly backed out of the three-day System repurchase agreements set on Monday, leaving the Fed with a somewhat increased need to supply reserves. Federal funds, which averaged 6.05 pct yesterday, opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter 
UNIVERSAL MEDICAL <UMBIZ> JOINS NASDAQ SYSTEM

UIniversal Medical Buildings LP said its partnership units were admitted for trading on the NASDAQ National Market System. Reuter 
HANDY AND HARMAN SEES SUFFICIENT SILVER SUPPLIES

World stocks of silver are large enough to accommodate any changes in the supply-demand equation this year, with industrial consumption expected to again exceed mine production, the dealer house Handy and Harman said in its annual review of the silver market. The house estimated that the industry last year withdrew 20,000,000 ounces of silver from stocks to bridge a supply deficit caused by a consumption rate of 403,000,000 ounces and production level of 382,000,000 ounces. However, world stocks are huge, totaling 2,267,900,000 ounces at the end of 1986, it said. The review noted that world industrial consumption has been on an uptrend since 1980, although offtake is still 14 pct below the 1978 level of 442,000,000 ounces. Handy and Harman said 22,800,000 ounces of silver were used to produce coins last year, up from 12,700,000 ounces in 1985, with the demand getting a big boost from the production of U.S. coins, including the American Eagle. It also said that in recent years Communist countries have increased their silver imports and estimated that China and East Germany alone took in 70,000,000 ounces of foreign silver in the last five years. Reuter 
ARISTECH <ARS> TO INCREASE PRODUCTION CAPACITY

Aristech Chemical Corp said it plans to increase production capacity for three of its key product lines: polypropylene, bisphenol-A and phenol. Aristech said the polypropylene expansion involves a major modernization of its Neal, W. Va., polypropylene plant. When completed, Aristech said, the project would increase the plant's annual production to 264 mln pounds from 165 mln pounds now. Aristech said the expansion will increase the company's total polypropylene, a thermoplastic resin, capacity to 600 mln pounds annually from 515 mln pounds now. Aristech also said it will expand bisphenol-A and phenol production at its Haverhill, Ohio plant. It said the project will raise its bisphenol-A, which is used to make polycarbonate and epoxy reins, capacity to 192 mln pounds per year from 165 mln pounds now. Aristech added that phenol production will increase to 610 mln pounds per year from 585 mln pounds a year now. Phenol is used to make phenolic resins and adhesives for engineering plastics, the company said. Reuter 
ON-LINE SOFTWARE <OSII> SETS CANADIAN VENTURE

On-Line Software International Inc said a Canadian venture equally owned with Nexa Corp, On-Line Software Canada Inc, began operating. On-Line Software Canada will offer software products acquired from Martin Marietta Corp <ML> last October and other On-Line products. Nexa is a Canadian investment firm specializing in information technology. Reuter 
DOE SECRETARY FAVORS HIGHER SPR FILL RATE

Energy Secretary John Herrington said he believes the Reagan Administration will review its decision to cut the fill rate of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve because of a department report issued yesterday warning of growing U.S. dependence on oil imports. "As part of this study, I think the Administration will take the fill rate under review," Herrington said at a House Energy subcommittee hearing. The Administration has proposed cutting the fill rate from 75,000 barrels of oil per day to 35,000 bpd in fiscal year 1988 to save money. "My personal feeling is that is too low. I favor the maximum fill rate (of 100,000 bpd)," Herrington said. Reuter 
EC OILS TAX, CANADA CORN RULING OPPOSED BY PANEL

The U.S. Senate Finance Committee approved nonbinding resolutions urging the Reagan administration oppose Canada's ruling on U.S corn imports and a proposed new European Community tax on vegetable oils. The resolutions, approved by voice vote, now will be sent to the Senate floor were they are expected to be approved. The EC oils measure, offered by Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., urges the administration to take strong retaliatory measures if the tax is approved by the EC Council of Ministers. Sen. David Durenberger, R-Minn., offered the corn amendment which urges the administration to file a complaint with the GATT if the U.S. believes the corn decision by Canada was unjustified. Canada recently imposed a permanent duty of 85 cents per bushel on U.S. corn imports. Reuter 
U.S. CORN MARKET SKEWED BY SOVIET BUYING

Recent purchases of U.S. corn by the Soviet Union have skewed the domestic cash market by increasing the price difference between the premium price paid at the Gulf export point and interior levels, cash grain dealers said. Many dealers expect the USDA will act soon to reduce the cash price premium at the Gulf versus the interior -- which a dealer in Davenport, Iowa, said was roughly 20 pct wider than normal for this time of year at 25 cents a bushel -- by making it worthwhile for farmers to move grain. By lowering ASCS county posted prices for corn, the USDA could encourage farmers to engage in PIK and roll corn sales, where PIK certificates are used to redeem corn stored under the government price support loan program and then marketed. If the USDA acts soon, as many dealers expect, the movement would break the Gulf corn basis. "The USDA has been using the Gulf price to determine county posted prices," one dealer said. "It should be taking the average of the Gulf price and the price in Kansas City," which would more closely reflect the lower prices in the interior Midwest. "But we don't know when they might do it," an Ohio dealer said, which has created uncertainty in the market. The USDA started the PIK certificate program in an effort to free up surplus grain that otherwise would be forfeited to the government and remain off the market and in storage. Yesterday, USDA issued a report showing that only slightly more than 50 pct of the 3.85 billion dlrs in PIK certificates it has issued to farmers (in lieu of cash payments) had to date been exchanged for grain. With several billion dlrs worth of additional PIK certificates scheduled to be issued in the coming months, the USDA would be well advised to encourage the exchange for grain by adjusting the ASCS prices, cash grain dealers said. A byproduct of the Soviet buying has been a sharp rise in barge freight costs quoted for carrying grain from the Midwest to the export terminals, cash dealers said. Freight from upper areas of the Mississippi have risen nearly 50 pct in the past two weeks to over 150 pct of the original tariff price. The mild winter and early reopening of the mid-Mississippi river this spring have also encouraged the firmer trend in barge freight, dealers noted. The higher transportation costs have served to depress interior corn basis levels, squeezing the margins obtained by the elevators feeding the Gulf export market as well as discouraging farmer marketings, they said. "The Gulf market overreacted to the Soviet buying reports," which indicate the USSR has booked over two and perhaps as much as 4.0 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, one Midwest cash grain trader said. But dealers anticipate that once the rumors subside, freight rates will settle back down because of the overall surplus of barges on the Midwest river system. Reuter 
N.Y. TRADERS SAY LATIN COFFEE PRODUCERS TO MEET

Several traders and analysts here told Reuters Latin American coffee producers will meet this weekend in Managua, Nicaragua. The purpose, they said, is to review the breakdown of International Coffee Organization quota talks last month and try to formulate a unified position ahead of possible future negotiations. Two traders, who asked not to be named, said separately Brazil is expected to attend the meeting along with most or all of the Central American producers. The Central American attendees would include Costa Rica and Honduras, who were part of a minority producer group at the February talks that opposed Brazil's position, they said. Another source, also requesting anonymity, said Colombia probably will not attend. Reuter 
U.S. OIL TAX BREAK PROPOSAL TO BE EXAMINED

The White House said a proposal for a tax break for the oil industry would undergo review. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said President Reagan had no position on recommendations submitted by Energy Secretary John Herrington to encourage investment in the hard hit domestic oil industry. But Fitzwater noted that Reagan did have a fundamental objection to tax rises and special tax breaks. He said that even though Herrington's recommendation did not agree with existing policy, "We'll take a look at it." The review will be undertaken by the president's Domestic Policy Council. Herrington's proposal was reported by the Washington Post to have been made in a letter to Reagan submitting a study that found the United States would be importing half of its oil by the 1990s, threatening U.S. national security. Reuter 
U.S ENERGY SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES

Energy Secretary John Herrington said he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration for consideration. "These options boost production, while avoiding the huge costs associated with proposals like an oil import fee," Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee hearing. "It is my intention to submit these proposals to the domestic policy council and the cabinet for consideration and review." He said proposals, including an increase in the oil depletion allowance and repeal of the windfall profits tax, should be revenue neutral and promote domestic production at the least cost to the economy and the taxpayers. "The goal of the Administration policies is to increase domestic production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a year." The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterday warning the United States was threatened by a growing dependence on oil imports. "We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65 pct by 1995," Herrington said. He said it was too soon to say what the Administration policy on oil tax incentives would be and indicated there would be opposition to tax changes. "Of course, to move forward with these kinds of options would require reopening tax issues settled last year (in the tax reform bill) -- an approach which has not, in general, been favored by the administration. I think what we need is to debate this within the Administration," he said. He said the proposals might raise gasoline prices. Herrington did not specifically confirm a report in today's Washington Post that he had written to President Reagan urging an increase in the oil depletion allowance. Asked about the report by subcommittee members, Herrington said various proposals were under consideration and would be debated within the Administration to determine which would have the most benefits at the least cost. Reuter 
AMERICAN EXPRESS <AXP> SIGNS DEBT/EQUITY DEAL

American Express Bank Ltd, a unit of American Express Co, said it has agreed with the Mexican government and local business groups to convert 100 mln dlrs of existing debt into equity to fund the construction of 3,000 hotel rooms around Mexico. American Express said in a statement that the swap will be made via its International Capital Corp unit over two years. The Mexican government said in a statement that the deal should result in about 250,000 extra tourists per year; the creation, directly and indirectly, of more than 15,000 new jobs and annual foreign exchange gains of over 80 mln dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORT BONUS POULTRY FEED FOR NORTH YEMEN

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 7,000 tonnes of mixed poultry feed to North Yemen, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the feed is for delivery during April. As announced earlier the bonus was 90.00 dlrs per tonne, made to The Pillsbury Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. An additional 143,000 tonnes of mixed poultry feed are still available to North Yemen under the Export Enhancement Program announced April 14, 1986, it said. Reuter 
CHICAGO BOARD TO SUBMIT YEN BOND FUTURES CONTRACT

Directors of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, decided at their regular board meeting late yesterday to submit a long-term Japanese Government Bond futures conrtact to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, for approval. The CBT's action was made possible by a ruling last week by the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, which removed a key regulartory obstacle to trading futures on foreign debt securities on U.S. exchanges. The CBT originally had approved a yen bond futures contract in December 1986 but the SEC rule precluded the application. The application to the CFTC could be made as soon as early next week, but the SEC's rule change must first be formalized by its publication in the federal register, an CBT spokesman said. The exchange said it did not know when the yen bond futures contract would be approved the the CFTC, but that CFTC provisions require that new contract submissions be acted upon within one year after submission. Reuter 
ERICSSON WINS ARKANSAS STATE CONTRACT

Sweden's Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson <ERIC ST> said one of its units had won a contract worth 8.7 mln dlrs from the U.S. State of Arkansas to provide a communications network for three state buildings. The voice/data communications system will connect 8,000 users via the Ericsson MD 110 subscriber exchange, the company said. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS BID ON BARLEY TO ISRAEL

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 30,000 long tons of barley to Israel, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the barley is for delivery April 15/May 15 and the bonus awarded was 41.24 dlrs per ton. The bonus was made to Cargill, Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. An additional 133,800 tons of U.S. barley are still available to Israel under the Export Enhancement Program announced June 17, 1986, it said. Reuter 
MEXICO TO SIGN 7.7 BILLION DLR LOAN FRIDAY

Mexican Finance Minister Gustavo Petriccioli said Mexico will sign its 7.7 billion dlr commercial bank loan on Friday. Petriccioli, speaking to reporters after a visit to the World Bank, said the loan was currently 98.5 pct subscribed, a figure Treasury Secretary James Baker used in Congressional testimony yesterday. Reuter 
CBT TO SUBMIT YEN BOND FUTURES CONTRACT TO CFTC

Directors of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, decided at their regular board meeting late yesterday to submit a long-term Japanese Government Bond futures conrtact to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, for approval. The CBT's action was made possible by a ruling last week by the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, which removed a key regulartory obstacle to trading futures on foreign debt securities on U.S. exchanges. The CBT originally had approved a yen bond futures contract in December 1986 but the SEC rule precluded the application. The application to the CFTC could be made as soon as early next week, but the SEC's rule change must first be formalized by its publication in the federal register, an CBT spokesman said. The exchange said it did not know when the yen bond futures contract would be approved the the CFTC, but that CFTC provisions require that new contract submissions be acted upon within one year after submission. Reuter 
REAGAN PLEDGES TO INCREASE SPENDING ON ACID RAIN

President Reagan, reacting to Canadian concerns, today announced he will seek 2.5 billion dlrs over five years to combat acid rain. The announcement said the administration will request from Congress 500 mln dlrs in each of the next two fiscal years to fund innovative projects to control smokestack emissions -- blamed for acid rain that has killed fish and trees in eastern Canada. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the administration had asked for 350 mln dlrs but that Ottawa had registered concern about the level of funding. He said the announcement was "obviously related" to an April-5-6 summit meeting in Ottawa between Reagan and Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. Reagan said that in addition to committing government money industry would be encouraged to invest a greatwer or equal amount to promote new technologies to cut air pollution. The announcement said an advisory panel, including state governmments and the canadian government, would advise on funding and selection of polllution control projects. Further, a presidential task force on regulatory relief would examine the effect of federal, state and local regulations on deployment of new emission control technologies. Reuter 
ENERGY/DRILLING INDUSTRY

The drastic cutbacks in U.S. drilling last year are rapidly deflating the United State's natural gas bubble, which could bring spot shortages in gas supplies next winter and a modest recovery in the oilpatch, industry analysts said. Faltering deliverability of natural gas, a commodity that is difficult and costly to import in large quantities, could more than double the current U.S. rig count to near 2,000 by 1990, some analysts said. The need to lock in future supplies of gas for utilities and big industrial customers may also bring a resurgence of activity in the Gulf of Mexico's offshore waters where some of the nation's largest gas reserves are located. "We think an upturn in U.S. drilling is imminent," said James Crandall, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. "Many companies appear to be switching from oil to gas drilling because they're betting that the gas market will be back in balance in a year or two." The prospect of diminishing gas supplies is welcome news for drilling and oilfield service companies that barely survived last year's plunge in oil prices from about 30 dlrs a barrel to less than half that. Today's relatively stable oil prices of about 18 dlrs a barrel are not enough to spur a return to the heady days of 1981 when the U.S. drilling rig count soared to a record high of more than 4,500 and oilfield roustabouts commanded premium wages. The latest weekly Hughes Tool Co <HT> rig count, a barometer of the oil industry's health, showed 761 U.S. rigs active in what is traditionally the slowest time of the year. In 1986, the Hughes rig count began the year at 1,915 but dived to a post-World War II low of 663 in July as world oil prices experienced the sharpest decline in recent times. Ike Kerridge, a Hughes economist, said "In 1986, the United States replaced only about 40 pct of the gas it used and that replacement rate won't be any better this year." He added, "We don't have the options we do with oil. Imports of gas from Canada are limited by pipeline capacity and importing liquefied natural gas on ships will not be feasible in the next 10 years because of the cost." Only about 6 trillion cubic feet of additional gas reserves were discovered last year while U.S. consumption approached 16 trillion cubic feet, according to industry estimates. George Gaspar, an oil analyst with Robert W. Baird and Co agreed that the need for gas supplies would set the stage for a new cycle of gradual increases in U.S. drilling. "We anticipate that natural gas pipelines will need to dedicate to their systems new gas reserves for 1989 and 1990 supplies. That means new drilling programs must begin no later than mid-1988," Gaspar said. Gasper said he sees a new drilling cycle emerging that could last until 1992 and that he expects the average rig count to peak near 2,000 in December of 1989. Much of the search for new gas reserves is likely to be conducted in the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico, where federal leases on unexplored areas will revert back to the government unless drilling begins in the next two or three years. Some of the industry's biggest companies, such as Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp MOB, and Union Texas Petroleum have already indicated plans to increase spending for drilling later this year in the Gulf of Mexico, Crandall said. For example, Conoco Inc, a Dupont <DD> subsidiary, will spend 400 mln dlrs to build the Gulf of Mexico's deepest production platform, which will produce 50 mln cubic feet of gas per day. But T. Boone Pickens, who has acquired huge Texas and Kansas gas reserves for his Mesa Limited Partnership <MLP> in recent months, is not convinced that the drilling industry is on the verge of a recovery. Pickens predicts the U.S. rig count will soon drop below 600 and will not increase significantly until oil prices do. "The rigs won't go back to work until the price of oil gets above 30 dlrs a barrel," said Pickens, 58, adding he did not expect to see the rig count top 2,000 again in his lifetime. Tenneco Inc <TGT>, one of the largest U.S. gas producers, is skeptical that a need for additional gas drilling exists. Tenneco vice president Joe Foster said he did not expect significant increases in drilling for gas until the early 1990s when the U.S. gas reserves life will have declined to about seven years' supply. Current spot market prices of about 1.50 dlrs per thousand cubic feet will need to rise to about three dlrs to spur reserve replacement, he said. Reuter 
SUGAR PRICES TOO LOW TO BOOST LATIN OUTPUT

Latin American sugar producers are awaiting further rises in world market prices before moving to boost production, official and trade sources said. Although prices have risen to around eight from five U.S. Cents per lb in the past six months, they are still below the region's nine to ten cents per lb average production cost. The recent rise in prices has placed producers on the alert, Manuel Rico, a consultant with the Group of Latin American and Caribbean Sugar Exporting Countries (GEPLACEA), told Reuters. However, Rico said, it would require another five to seven cents to stimulate notable increases in output. "Producers are taking measures for increasing their production when the prices are profitable," he said. Officials in Mexico, Guatemala and Ecuador said a continued rise in prices would stimulate production, but industry leaders in Panama and Costa Rica said there was still a long way to go. "The prices are ridiculous," said Julian Mateo, vice president of Costa Rica's Sugar Cane Industrial-Agricultural League. "At current prices nobody is going to consider increasing production." Other producers are wary of committing funds to increasing output, given the instability of world markets. An official at Colombia's National Association of Sugar Cane Growers said they had no plans to raise export targets. "The market is very unstable. What is happening is not yet giving way to a pattern and so there is no reason to modify anything." In 1985, the latest year for which full figures are available, Central and South American nations produced 28 mln tonnes, raw value, of sugar of which 12.3 mln were exported. A year earlier, they had produced and exported about 800,000 more, according to the London-based International Sugar Organization. Years of continuous low prices have plunged the sugar industry in many countries in the region into a recession from which it will be hard to recover. Miguel Guerrero, director of the Dominican Republic's National Sugar Institute, said it would be difficult to boost production even if prices recovered sharply. Output had slumped to under 450,000 tonnes a year from 900,000 in the late 1970s. Obsolete refineries, poor transport and badly maintained plantations were barriers to any short term recovery in output, he added. Plans of nearby Cuba, the world's largest cane sugar exporter, to increase output to 10 mln tonnes a year by the end of the decade seem ambitious, trade sources said. Output is running well below the record 8.6 mln produced in 1970. Cuba suffers from run down plantations, harvesting problems and poor processing facilities more than from low world prices, since much of its output is sold to Eastern Bloc countries under special deals. Last year, bad weather added to its troubles, and output fell to 7.2 mln tonnes from 8.2 mln in 1985. The low world prices of recent years have led many countries in the region to cut exportable production to levels where they barely cover U.S. And, in the case of some Caribbean countries, European Community (EC) import quotas, for which they receive prices well above free market levels. Progressive reductions in the U.S. Quotas have led to production stagnating or falling rather than being shifted to the free world market. Peru, for example, shipped 96,000 tonnes to the U.S. In both 1983 and 1984. This fell to 76,000 in 1986 and this year its quota is only 37,000. A national cooperative official said that, as long as world market levels continue at around half of Peru's production cost, the future of the industry is uncertain. At a meeting of GEPLACEA in Brazil last October officials stressed the need to find alternative uses for sugar cane which, according to the group's executive-secretary Eduardo Latorre, "grows like a weed" throughout the region. Brazil, the largest cane producer with output of around 240 mln tonnes, uses over half to produce alcohol fuel. Cane in excess of internal demand for alcohol and sugar is refined into sugar for sale abroad to earn much needed foreign currency. The difference in the price the state-run Sugar and Alcohol Institute (IAA) pays local industry and what it receives from foreign buyers costs the government some 350 mln dlrs a year. Soaring domestic demand for both alcohol and sugar over the past year, coupled with a drought-reduced cane crop, has meant Brazil will have difficulties in meeting export commitments in 1987, trade sources said. Negotiations to delay shipments to next year have been indecisive so far, the main sticking point being how Brazil should compensate buyers for non-delivery of sugar it had sold at around five cents per lb and which would cost eight cents to replace. Brazilian sugar industry sources said new sugar export sales were expected to be extremely low for the next year, with the Institute wary of exposing itself to domestic shortages of either alcohol or sugar and because of the need to rebuild depleted reserve stockpiles. However, the situation could change dramatically if the economy goes into recession and internal demand slumps. Sources within Latin America and the Caribbean hold little hope for the region's sugar industry to return to profitability unless the U.S. And EC change their policies. "The agricultural policies of the European Community and of the United States have caused our economies incalculable harm by closing their markets, by price deterioration in international commerce and furthermore by the unfair competition in third countries," Brazil's Trade and Industry Minister Jose Hugo Castelo Branco told the October GEPLACEA meeting. The EC has come under prolonged attack from GEPLACEA for what the group charges is its continued dumping of excess output on world markets. GEPLACEA officials say this is the main cause of low prices. GEPLACEA sees a new International Sugar Agreement which would regulate prices as one of the few chances of pulling the region's industry out of steady decline. Such an agreement would have to have both U.S. And EC backing and industrialised countries would have to see it as a political rather than a merely economic pact. "They have to realise that the more our economies suffer, the less capcity we have to buy their goods and repay the region's 360 billion dollar foreign debt," GEPLACEA's Latorre said. Reuter 
AMOCO <AN> IN NATURAL GAS FIND OFF TRINIDAD

Amoco Corp said its WEQB-1 exploratory well 39 miles east of Galeota Point on Trinidad's east coast flowed 24 mln cubic feet of natural gas and 500 barrels of condensate daily from one zone and 29 mln cubic feet of natural gas and 600 barrels of condensate daily from a second. The company said both flows were through 40/64 inch chokes and from zones between 10,000 and 13,000 feet in depth. The well, in 260 feet of water, was drilled to a total depth of 14,629 feet, it said. It said the discovery was made in sands previously untested in the area. Reuter 
MGM/UA <MGM> JOINS CHINA FILM CORP PACT

MGM/UA Communications Co said it has joined Paramount Pictures and MCA Inc's <MCA> Universal Studios in their agreement with China Film Corp of Beijing to distribute motion pictures in China. MGM said it is also joining a venture to license two hours a week of primetime television programming to China's national television network. Revenues will be derived from advertising time for U.S. and foreign companies, it said. Reuter 
CONSOLIDATED NATURAL <CNG> FORMS TRADING UNIT

Consolidated Natural Gas Co said it has received Securities and Exchange Commission approval to establish a wholly-owned natural gas marketing subsidiary called CNG Trading Co. It said the new unit will operate in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Louisiana and Texas and compete with other markets for delivery of low-cost natural gas supplies. Consolidated said customers' needs will be met from a wide range of low cost sources, including the spot market, independent producers and brokers, and Consolidated's producing affiliates - CNG Development Co of Pittsburgh, and CNG Producing Co based in New Orleans. Reuter 
EC WARNS CONGRESS ON NEW TRADE BILL

The European Community (EC) has warned the U.S. House of Representatives that tough trade legislation it is considering could prompt retaliation by U.S. trading partners. The warning was sent in a letter from Sir Roy Denman, head of the EC delegation in Washington, to Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. A copy of the letter was made available to Reuters. Denman told Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat, he backed aspects of the bill, such as one backing new talks under the GATT and one excluding protection for the textile industry. But Denman disagreed with other provisions which would require President Reagan to take retaliatory trade action against nations with large trade surpluses with the U.S. and would set new standards for judging unfair foreign trade practices. Denman told Rostenkowski that GATT regulations prohibit member nations from taking unilateral retaliatory action in trade disputes unless the action is GATT-approved. He said "If the Congress makes retaliatory action mandatory, then the United States would be in violation of its international legal obligations and on a collision course with its major trading partners." Denman added that a president should have flexibility in enforcing trade laws, saying "in the last resort, any administration must take its decision in light of the overall national interest." Otherwise, he said, "the risk would be counter-reaction by trading partners of the United States, i.e., retaliation or enactment of mirror image legislation to be employed against imports from the United States." Denman also said Congress could prompt retaliation if it reduced the threshhold of unfair trade by making it easier for firms to file unfair trade practice claims. Retaliation could also be prompted by relaxing standards for findings that imports were injuring U.S. firms. "Changes in these standards must be agreed upon multilaterally. They cannot be imposed by the United States alone on the world trading system," he said. House leaders have rejected a plan by textile-state legislators to add to the trade bill a provision to curb imports of cloth and clothing, similar to a measure passed two years ago but vetoed by President Reagan. There was concern by the leaders that Reagan would veto the entire trade bill because of the textile amendment. Reuter 
HOUSE FARM LEADER SEES BILLION DLR BUDGET CUTS

The 1988 agriculture budget will have to be cut by an additional one to two billion dlrs, the chairman of a key house agriculture subcommittee said. Implementation of a 0/92 program, a tightening up of the use of commodity certificates, and reconstitution of farms are possibilities that will be studied to reduce farm spending, said Dan Glickman, D-Kans., chairman of the House agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and feedgrains. Speaking at the annual meeting of the National Grain and Feed Association, Glickman said he learned this week from the House budget committee that the agriculture committee will have to reduce the fiscal year 1988 farm budget by up to two billion dlrs from the 30 billion dlrs level already approved. Decisions on how to cut the farm budget will have to be made very quickly in order to make any impact on the FY 1988 budget, Glickman added. Glickman also said his committee will not approve USDA's proposal to cut target prices by ten pct per year. "The administration's target price proposals are dead in the water," he said. To cut the budget, Glickman said, "everthing is on the table," except those moves that would reduce farmers' income. Glickman offered a list of possibilities that his committee will study in order to cut farm spending. Implementation of a 0/92 program for 1987 winter wheat and 1988 feedgrains crops has been introduced by Glickman, which he said would result in a 150-200 mln dlr savings for one year. Tightening up on the use of generic (in-kind, or "pik') certificates will also be another option his committee will study, Glickman said. While not committing himself for or against such action, he said lawmakers have to examine recent government findings which indicate certificates cost more than cash payments. Glickman said rules for the reconstitution of farms and tightening up of the person definition for annual payment limitations is another option and could save 100-200 mln dlrs. He also said increasing acreage set-aside requirements by five pct for wheat and feedgrains at program sign-up was a move that could save about one billion dlrs, but added that he would not be in favor of such a change. Glickman also said that the Export Enhancement Program's, EEP, spending authority of 1.5 billion dlrs is quickly being used up, and Congress will have to decide whether to expand this program while making cuts in other areas. Cuts in the EEP program are unlikely, he said. "I don't see right now that the EEP will be on the chopping block," Glickman said. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY INDUSTRY SAID IN BETTER HEALTH

The U.S. oil and gas industry is in better health than it was a year ago, according to testimony given to the Texas Railroad Commission at its annual state of the industry hearing today. The Commission, which regulates the state's oil and gas industry, heard testimony from a number of high-level company executives reflecting a belief that the recent industry downturn had bottomed out. "The attitude expressed here today so far is a great deal more optimistic (than last year)," Commissioner James E. (Jim) Nugent told Reuters. "It reflects their (the executives) belief that they are seeing the bottom of the economic cycle," he added, "and with just a few reasonable breaks this industry can begin to move again." The energy industry was hard hit by the sharp drop in oil prices, which fell from around 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 to as low as 10 dlrs in mid-1986. Prices have since steadied to around 18 dlrs a barrel. At the same time, a number of company executives testified that the nation's domestic exploration and production segment was still hurting and in need of government help. Production costs are considerably higher in the United States than in such areas as the Middle East and as prices fell many domestic producers were forced to shut down their operations. Currently, there are only about 760 oil rigs operating in the United States compared with an average of nearly 2,000 in 1985. Citing a study released yesterday by the Department of Energy, many said the falling production of domestic oil coupled with increasing U.S. demand, was leading to a growing dependency on imports, particularly from the politically volatile Middle East. "In the U.S., 1986 petroleum production responded to lower prices, increasing about 2.5 pct, or 400,000 barrels per day (bpd)," said J.S. Simon, General Manager of the Supply Department at Exxon Corp <XON>, the nation's largest oil company. At the same time, Simon said "U.S. oil production declined by 300,000 bpd, the first decline in several years," and "net petroleum imports were up 25 pct to 5.3 mln bpd." Noting that while oil prices were expected to remain between 13 and 20 dlrs a barrel, depending on OPEC's ability to control production, Simon said demand is expected to remain at 1986 levels, leading to "a significant amount of spare worldwide production capacity, in excess of 10 mln bpd." He said the surplus capacity would lead to continued volatility and called for "governmental and regulatory policies in support of the domestic petroleum industry." Citing the costs recently imposed by the federal government through the 1986 tax code changes and "Superfund" legislation, Simon called for the repeal of the windfall profits tax, total decontrol of natural gas and improved access to federal lands for oil and gas exploration. Simon did not mention an oil import fee, which many in the industry have called for as a way of building up the nation's domestic operations before imports reach such a level that national security might be compromised. In yesterday's report, the Energy Department said imports could make up 50 pct of U.S. demand by 1995, adding that Persian Gulf producers will provide as much as 65 pct of the free world's total oil consumption by that date. Arguing that "oil is a political tool in every nation on earth," Frank Pitts, chairman of <Pitts Oil Co>, today called for a variable oil import fee, among other measures, "before the treacherous foothold of the Middle East is irreversible and our national security is compromised." Royce Wisenbaker, Chairman of Wisenbaker Production Co, agreed, saying that like many federal government programs that were set up with good intentions, it would probably turn into a "shambles." Wisenbaker added that he was optimistic for the future. "For those of us who have managed to hold on, the worst is over," he said. Roger Hemminghaus, President of Diamond Shamrock Refining and Marketing Co, said he was "enthusiastic about the future," adding that he expected "an increase in profitability by midyear." Reuter 
USSR CORN BUYING MAY BE 3.5 MLN TONNES--AMSTUTZ

The Soviet Union's recent corn purchases from the United States could total as much as 3.5 mln tonnes, U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said. "We are not sure how much (Soviets have bought) but we think it could be as high as 3.5 mln tonnes," Amstutz told a House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. He added that China also will need to import more corn this year than earlier anticipated, but he gave no figures. Reuter 
U.S. WHEAT GROWERS SET STATE DEPT TRADE MEETING

The National Association of Wheat Growers, NAWG, board of directors is scheduled to meet Secretary of State George Schultz and Undersecretary of State Allen Wallis to discuss the Department's current role in farm trade policy, the association said. NAWG President Jim Miller said in a statement that the organization wanted to convey to Secretary Schultz the importance that exports hold for U.S. agriculture and the degree to which farmers are dependent upon favorable State Department trade policies to remain profitable. "Foreign policy decisions of the U.S. State Department have in the past severely hampered our efforts to move our product to overseas markets," he said. Miller noted Secretary Schultz is scheduled to meet next month with representatives of the Soviet Union, and the NAWG "wanted to be certain the secretary was aware of our concerns regarding the reopening of wheat trade with the Soviet Union." The annual spring NAWG board of directors meeting is held in Washington to allow grower-leaders from around the country to meet with their state congressional delegations and members of the executive branch. The purpose is to discuss the current situation for producing and marketing wheat and help set the legislative and regulatory agenda for the coming year, the NAWG statement said. Reuter 
DOE SECRETARY PROPOSES OIL TAX INCENTIVES

Energy Secretary John Herrington said he will propose tax incentives to increase domestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration for consideration. "These options boost production, while avoiding the huge costs associated with proposals like an oil import fee," Herrington told a House Energy subcommittee hearing. "It is my intention to submit these proposals to the domestic policy council and the cabinet for consideration and review." "The goal of the Administration policies is to increase domestic production. I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day," he said. The proposals were based on a DOE study released yesterday warning the United States was threatened by a growing dependence on oil imports. "We project free world dependence on Persian Gulf oil at 65 pct by 1995," Herrington said. Reuter 
JAMAICA AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 WHEAT - USDA

Jamaica has been authorized to purchase about 56,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It may buy the wheat, valued at 7.0 mln dlrs, between March 25 and August 341 and ship it from U.S. ports and/or Canadian transshipment points by September 30, 1987. Reuter 
HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE VOTES CREDIT CARD RATE CAP

A House Banking subcommittee has approved legislation to limit the interest rates charged by banks and other credit card issuers. The Consumer Affairs and Coinage subcommittee bill would limit credit card interest rates at eight percentage points above the yield on one-year Treasury securities. If in effect now, the bill would limit credit card rates to 13.8 pct compared to a nation-wide average of 18 pct, the subcommittee said. The bill now goes to the full House Banking committee for further action. Reuter 
AMEX APPROVES LANDMARK TECHNOLOGY FOR LISTING

The American Stock Exchange said it approved for original listing 12,315,000 common shares of Landmark Technology Corp, a real estate services company. The exchange said trading in the new issue is scheduled to start March 20 under ticker symbol LCO. The Marietta, Ga., concern currently trades in over-the-counter market under symbol LTCO. Landmark Technology reported net income of about 3.9 mln dlrs on sales of 19.2 mln dlrs in 1986 compared with earnings of almost 2.1 mln dlrs on revenues of about 11 mln dlrs in 1985, the exchange said. The company rehabilitates historic buildings and other structures in metropolitan Atlanta. Reuter 
BELCHER TO RAISE HEAVY FUELS PRICES

The Belcher Co of New York, a subsidiary of Coastal Corp <CGP>, said it will raise the posted prices for number six fuel in New York 25 cts to 1.75 dlrs a barrel, depending on grades. Effective March 19, the new prices are 0.3 pct sulphur 22.50 dlrs, up one dlr, 0.5 pct sulphur 21.75 dlrs, up 1.75 dlrs, 0.7 pct sulphur 21 dlrs, up 1.25 dlrs. One pct sulphur 20.25 dlrs, up one dlr, two pct sulphur 18.25 dlrs, up 25 cts, 2.2 pct sulphur 18 dlrs, up 25 cts, 2.5 pct sulphur 17.75 dlrs, up 30 cts, and 2.8 pct sulphur 17.50 dlrs, up 50 cts. Reuter 
SENATE DEFEATS MOVE AGAINST NICARAGUAN REBEL AID

The Senate defeated a move to block dlrs 40 mln in military aid to the Nicaraguan "contra" rebels, virtually assuring the aid will go through. The 52-to-48 vote was a victory for President Reagan, who made the contra program the centerpiece of his Central American policy. The vote virtually guaranteed that 40 mln dlrs -- the final installment of a 100 mln-dlr aid package approved by Congress last year -- would reach the rebels fighting the leftist Managua government. Reuter 
TEXACO INC <TX> 84.1 MLN DLR DEFENSE CONTRACT

Texaco Refining and Marketing Inc is being awarded a 84.1 mln dlr Defense Logistics Agency contract for jet fuel, the Defense Department said. It said work on the contract, which was awarded as part of a multi-contract procurement program, is expected to be completed by March 31, 1988. Reuter 
CANADA WELCOMES LATEST REAGAN ACID RAIN PLEDGE

The Canadian government welcomed President Reagan's announcement that he would seek 2.5 billion dlrs over five years to combat acid rain. "This action on the part of the U.S. administration serves well our ultimate objective of a bilateral accord providing for a common resolution of this serious environment problem," Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said in a statement. Environment Minister Tom McMillan said the Reagan announcement was a major step toward elimination of acid rain and that Canada was pleased with the U.S. decision. The Reagan announcement earlier today said the administration would ask Congress to approve 500 mln dlrs in each of the next two fiscal years to fund innovative projects to control smokestack emissions -- blamed for acid rain that has killed fish and trees in eastern Canada and the northeastern United States. Canada has been pressing the Reagan administration to live up to a commitment made last year for 5 billion dlrs in spending by the U.S. government and industry to cut toxic emissions that cause acid rain. The acid rain issue has been the major irritant in Canada-U.S. relations for several years, with Ottawa accusing Washington of failing to act on the issue. Reuter 
PRI <PRI> TO BUY SHELL <RD> HAWAII GAS STATIONS

Pacific Resources Inc said it signed a definitive agreement with Royal Dutch/Shell Group unit Shell Oil Co to buy Shell's marketing, terminaling and distribution assets in Hawaii for 32 mln dlrs. The purchase would include Shell's interest in 39 retail gasoline stations and four petroleum product terminals, PRI said. The company said it expects the transaction to be completed by September 1, 1987. The pact includes provisions allowing the continued use of the Shell trademark, credit cards and the sale of Shell brand products by the gasoline stations, PRI said. PRI said all Shell-brand products sold under this agreement will be manufactured to Shell specifications. Reuter 
DIVISION SEEN ON HOW TO HELP U.S. OIL INDUSTRY

The U.S. Congress and the oil industry are deeply divided on ways the government should assist the industry, hurt by the sharp fall in oil prices, and the subsequent growth in oil imports, industry analysts said. "The industry is deeply divided between those who support an oil tariff and those who believe tax incentives are better," said Daniel Yergin, director of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, which recently completed a survey of the U.S. Congress on energy issues. Yergin said he saw mounting support within Congress for tax incentives rather than an oil tariff or import fee. Today U.S. Energy Secretary John Herington said he will propose tax incentives to increase edomestic oil and natural gas exploration and production to the Reagan Administration for consideration. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the proposal would be reviewed. Herrington said, "I would like to shoot for one mln barrels a day (addition) to U.S. production." U.S. oil output was off to 8.4 mln bpd in the week of March 13, down six pct from last year, the American Petroleum Institute said. Oil industry analysts have forecast oil prices to average about 18 dlrs a barrel for the year and many believe that a move above that level will be unlikey for the near term. Paul Mlotok, oil analyst for Salomon Brothers Inc said that "even with the rise in prices for the last week or two we've only altered our average price scenerio to about 17.50 dlrs for the year." Analysts said that at that price renewed drilling and exploration to reverse the decline in U.S. crude oil output will not take place as the companies are waiting for stable prices over 20 dlrs to renew exploration. John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation Inc in New york in recent testimony to Congress said "The continuing decline in U.S. oil production is virtually inevitable under any realistic price scenario. But the future rate of decline is very much a function of world oil prices and U.S. government policy." Lichtbalu said that tax breaks could be used to raise oil production but would only work over time. "Lowering the producing industry's tax burden would probably be a slower stimulant (to output) than a price increase but would not raise energy costs." Lichtblau said. But the small independent oil companies who do much of the drilling in the U.S. are looking for the more immediate relief which could be brought on by an oil import fee. Ronald Tappmeyer, president of the International Association of Drilling Contractors, said, "The members of our trade asssociation are convinced that only a variable oil import fee that sets a minimum price trigger can protect our nation." The association represents some 1,300 drilling and oil service companies. The CERA survey of Congress shows that the oil import fee will face a stiff uphill battle. Yergin said that the poll which was conducted in January by a former Congressman, Orval Hansen, showed support for the oil import fee from 22 pct of the Congressmen surveyed largely as a means of protecting the domestic petroleum industry. At the same time 48 pct of the Congressmen surveyed opposed the fee with the respondents saying the tariff would hurt consumers and some regional interests. But 80 pct of the sample said support for a fee could grow if production continued to fall and imports to rise. Yergin said that imports above 50 pct of U.S. requirements "is a critical, symbolic level. If they (imports) move above that level, a fee may not be legislated but there will certainly be pressure for some form of action." But Lichtblau, in a telephone interview, said, "a 50 pct rate of import dependency is not likely to happen before 1990. In 1986 U.S. oil imports rose to 33 pct of u.s. energy requirements and shopuld be about 34 pct in 1987, he added. Reuter 
SHULTZ SAYS U.S. PRODUCTS MUST BE COMPETITIVE

Asked what the U.S. State Department's policy is on offering subsidized wheat to Moscow, Secretary of State George Shultz told a group of farm leaders that U.S. products must be competitive in the world market. "If we are going to sell our products, whatever they may be, wheat or anything else, then we have to meet the market," Shultz told the board of directors for the National Association of Wheat Growers. "We have to be competitive. It's ridiculous to say that somebody is going to buy your product if they can get the same thing at a lower price somewhere else. They just aren't," he said. "That is our approach in the negotiations with the Soviets, and it must be our approach as we look at the American farm program and try to figure out what we should do to make it better," Shultz told the Wheat Growers. Schultz said that while he does not favor a situation that would allow the Soviet housewife to buy food cheaper than the American housewife, he realizes the importance of American agricultural products being competitively priced. Speculation has been in the market for some time that the United States is considering offering wheat to the Soviet Union at subsidized prices. Soviet officials have said they would buy U.S. wheat if it were competitively priced. Agriculture Department officials have declined to take any official position on the issue. Reuter 
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 2.3 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 2.3 pct in the four weeks ended March 13 to 16.49 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.11 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was up 2.9 pct in the period to 3.43 mln bpd from 3.33 mln a year earlier. Gasoline demand averaged 6.93 mln bpd, up 4.0 pct from 6.67 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.31 mln bpd, off 7.9 pct from 1.42 mln, the EIA said. Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mln bpd, down 8.1 pct from 9.10 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.70 mln bpd, up 24.8 pct from 2.96 mln, the EIA said. Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.92 mln bpd, up 1.0 pct from 11.80 mln a year earlier, it said. Year-to-date figures will not become available until March 26 when EIA's Petroleum Supply Monthly data for January 1987 becomes available, the agency said. Reuter 
BAKER AND VOLCKER SAY DEBT STRATEGY WILL WORK

Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker have told House leaders they were optimistic their debt strategy would work, but acknowledged the crisis could take a sharp turn for the worse, Congressional sources and U.S. officials said. Baker and Volcker gave these views at closed-door talks yesterday with Speaker Jim Wright and other House leaders. But the two architects of the Third World debt strategy gave no indications they would abandon their plan to promote economic growth and reform. "They expressed optimism about the current state of affairs," one participant at the meeting said. However Baker and Volcker, accompanied by Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead, acknowledged there were risks. "And if things turned sour, they could turn very sour," a source quoted them as saying. They were responding to questions from Wright, a Texas Democrat, who called the meeting two weeks ago because of his concern the debt crisis was deepening, an aide said. The Speaker asked all three men about the risks to Latin American democracy and the danger that demagogues of either left or right could wrest control and halt debt repayments. Even though the Fed chief joined Baker in expressing more confidence in an optimistic outcome, Volcker was especially concerned about the political risks, and in particular the fatigue with belt-tightening. The central banker said resolving the debt crisis would be a "struggle". Since taking over the Speakership at the start of the year, Wright has shown himself an able political adversary of the administration on budget strategy. His involvement in this issue also seems to signal that Congressional interest in the debt problem has to be taken more seriously now than in the past. More worrisome for administration strategists is the possibility that Congressional debt proposals essentially granting debt relief will be attached to a trade bill. "When (Baker and Volcker) left the Speaker's office, they knew it wasn't just talk," one source at the meeting said. The two economic policymakers listened patiently to descriptions of plans for a Third World debt facility, backed by gold reserves of the International Monetary Fund. The agency could buy up or guarantee developing country debt at a discount and resell it to debtor nations undertaking economic reforms. The U.S. Treasury would be required to ask other countries for their views under a bill approved by a House Banking subcommittee and sponsored by John LaFalce, a New York House Democrat. A similar proposal is being fashioned by Bruce Morrison, a House Democrat from Connecticut. The sources said House Banking and Foreign Affairs leaders also attended the discussions. U.S. officials said both schemes are regarded by the administration as providing debt relief. Baker said yesterday the concept of debt relief was misguided. "If we write it all off and declare defeat, these countries will decay and wither on the vine," the Treasury Secretary said of an end to capital inflows that would follow debt relief. Baker has said his own plan was broad and would embrace new innovative ideas bringing together debtors and creditors. Baker and Volcker launched their in late 1985, calling on commercial and multilateral banks to increase loans to major debtors pursuing inflation-free expansion and open markets. "They sat down together to discuss the implications for Latin America and feel each other out on the best way out," a Wright aide said of the meeting. Other sources said they expect the dialogue to continue. The talks come after Brazil's interest rate moratorium and an uncompromising stand by the country's finance minister, Dilson Funaro, after talks with western leaders. Some U.S. officials feel Funaro's consolidation of power over the Brazilian economy with the ouster of Planning minister Joao Sayad is further reason to worry. Another proposal, to allow regulators to grant commercial banks more flexibility in accounting for Third World loans, has been presented by Senator Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat, but did not come up yesterday. Wright, who has not hitherto concerned himself with debt, "is concerned about the potential for damage. The Latin American issue, at least on the surface appears to be a new danger," said an aide, who asked not to be named. There are signs the Brazilian situation and a reluctance by commercial banks to join in new cash loans even for debtors following substantial reforms has concerned U.S. officials. At the State Department, Secretary of State George Shultz is being advised the "Baker plan is going through a rough patch" while Treasury officials are urging commercial banks to adopt more flexible approaches to guarantee their continued participation in the plan. Reuter 
TAIWAN BUYS 450,000 TONNES OF U.S. CORN

Taiwan overnight bought 450,000 tonnes of U.S. number two corn, 14.5 pct moisture, for Gulf and West Coast shipment in 11 cargoes between May and October, private export sources said. Gulf shipment ranged in prices from 75.17 to 78.45 dlrs per tonne stowed and trimmed, FOB euqivalent, and West Coast shipments ranged from 79.41 to 81.02 dlrs per tonne, stowed and trimmed, FOB equivalent, they said. Reuter 
RESULTS AWAITED ON EGYPT PL 480 WHEAT TENDER

Results were awaited on Egypt's tender today for 200,000 tonnes of U.S. soft or white wheat for April shipment under PL 480, private export sources said. Reuter 
AMSTUTZ SEES MORE BULLISH WHEAT OUTLOOK IN 1987

U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz indicated the world wheat supply/demand situation has become more bullish recently because of developments in the world market and increased consumption. Speaking to a House Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee, Amstutz cited three factors which have improved the wheat outlook. He said world consumption of wheat is increasing by about 20 mln tonnes this year, primarily for feed use. There are also reports from Australia, Canada and Argentina that plantings have been reduced, he said. Furthermore, he cited reports of greater than normal winterkill in the Soviet Union. "It seems reasonable to expect production and consumption to be in far better balance than a year ago," Amstutz said. Reuter 
U.S. SOYBEANS HAVE COMPETITIVE PROBLEM - AMSTUTZ

Soybeans produced in the United States face a competitive price problem because of the loan rate provisions of the 1985 farm bill, U.S. Undersecretary of Agriculture Daniel Amstutz said. Amstutz told a House Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that soybeans are caught in a "squeeze" because the Farm Bill allowed steep cuts in grain loan rates while limiting the soybean reduction. As a result, he said U.S.-produced soybeans "have a price problem" in competing with other soybean producing countries. Amstutz called the situation a "dilemma" for the USDA, and said "we have spent hours in ASCS (Agriculture Stabilization and Conservation Service) looking at this." He did not say what may be done to rectify the situation. Reuter 
REAGAN URGES REVISION OF HIGH TECH EXPORT LIMITS

President Reagan has sent Congress proposals to streamline high-tech export control procedures, the White House said. "These proposals are part of the president's energetic program to enhance America's competitiveness in the world economy," it said in a written statement. It said the proposals included exempting from license requirements a number of low technology items and allowing foreign manufacturers to re-export U.S. parts and components up to a certain level without U.S. government re-export authorization. REUTER 
VOLATILITY LIKELY TO REMAIN LOW IN DEBT FUTURES

Financial analysts see little chance that U.S. interest rate futures will break out of their narrow ranges and low volatility during the remainder of the week. "We got a little volatility Wednesday," said Staley Commodities International analyst Jerome Lacey. "But for the moment we're still in a trading range." Even unexpected developments concerning the growth of the U.S. economy may not be enough to spur the market out of its sluggish state, the analysts said. "It (the bond market) has not yet demonstrated that it can break out of its very low volatility," said Carroll McEntee and McGinley analyst Denis Karnosky. "It needs something, but it's not going to be news about the economy," he said. Karnosky said that the bond market will possibly break out of the doldrums if participants perceive that the dollar has stabilized and the Federal Reserve has more room to conduct monetary policy. But even Wednesday, when fed funds were below six pct, the dollar strong and oil on the soft side, bond futures attracted eager sellers when contracts approached recent highs, he said. In addition to a changing perception about the dollar and monetary policy, Golden Gate Futures president Norman Quinn said the beginning of April could bring foreign investors back into the marketplace. "The market is beginning to feel there may be demand at the beginning of the fiscal year in Japan on April 1," Quinn said. Quinn echoed the sentiment of many analysts that there are large amounts of cash waiting to be invested. If Japanese investment in U.S. securities does materialize at the start of Japan's fiscal year, domestic funds may also flow into the bond market, he said. "We could get a stiff rally, possibly enough to bring yields on long bonds down to seven to 7-1/8 pct," compared to the current yield of about 7.5 pct, Quinn said. In the meantime, even the prospect of new supply is not likely to move futures. The Treasury's announcement of a 15 billion dlr refunding operation did little to move cash government securities prices late Wednesday after the close of futures. "I'd be surprised if supply pushed us out of it (the trading range)," Lacey said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL VOTES TO EASE EXPORT CONTROLS

A key House panel voted to greatly ease government controls on exports as several House committees moved rapidly toward approval of major changes in trade laws they hope will help solve U.S. trade woes. The House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on International Economic Policy voted to direct the administration to cut the list of controlled exports by 40 per cent by removing items no longer considered important to U.S. military security. Industries had complained they were losing sales to foreign competitors who were allowed to export freely products U.S. companies could not sell abroad. The issue has been the subject of administration debate. The Commerce Department had held that unnecessary restrictions impeded U.S. exports while the Defense Department said current controls should be retained but better administered. Four congressional panels met today to consider portions of a wideranging trade bill that intends to help U.S. companies sell more products abroad and to fight unfair foreign trade practices. Their separate proposals, some of them conflicting, will be woven by House Democratic leaders into a final trade bill for a vote by the full House in late April. Sparked by the proposal of Fujitsu Ltd. to take controlling interest in Schlumberger Ltd's Fairchild Semiconductor Corp., the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on Commerce voted to expand Reagan's authority to block foreign takeovers of U.S. companies. Reagan would be able to block any takeover found to be damaging to U.S. economic or national security interests. "We are losing our semiconductors which are at the heart of our national security," subcommittee chairman James Florio, a New Jersey Democrat said. The subcommittee also called for the administration to consider retaliation against Japan for its restrictive government procurement practices. The retaliation could be triggered by a requirement that the administration investigate whether U.S. companies were treated unfairly and whether they have been barred from bids on lucrative public works projects such as the eight billion dlr Kansai airport construction. U.S. firms have complained they were not allowed to bid on its construction. At the urging of the U.S. recording industry, the subcommittee agreed to bar imports of a new Japanese product--digital audio recorders. Meeting in closed session, the House Ways and Means Committee agreed to allow President Reagan to retaliate against foreign countries that refuse to open their markets to U.S. telecommunications products. Congressional aides said the committee also agreed U.S. companies would be allowed to press for relief from imports of counterfeit products made in violation of U.S. copyright and patent laws. Reuter 
US SPRINT TO SERVE SPAIN, DENMARK AND SWEDEN

US Sprint Communications Co, a joint venture of GTE Corp <GTE> and United Telecommunications Inc <UT>, said it will initiate long distance service to Spain, Denmark and Sweden on April two. US Sprint said the additions will bring to 34 the number of countries it serves. Reuter 
GLOBAL FARM REFORM TOP U.S. PRIORITY - SHULTZ

Dismantling agricultural subsidies and implementing international farm policy reform will be the top priorities of the United States at the upcoming Venice Economic Summit, Secretary of State George Shultz told a group of American farm leaders. "We want to see the American farmer put in a position in which he can compete on a level playing field," Shultz told the board of directors for the National Association of Wheat Growers. The global agricultural situation is in the midst of the most serious farm crisis in modern history, Shultz said, and how the U.S. responds to the current problems will determine whether the U.S. will continue its leadership role in world agriculture. Government policies that subsidize production and exports have created a "crisis of overproduction," he said. Shultz particularly criticized European Community policies which he said encourage domestic production by providing high government supports to farmers and then exporting the surplus product with the help of huge subsidies. The U.S. and its trading partners cannot afford to continue current high levels of subsidies, he said. But the U.S. cannot stop subsidies alone, Shultz said. "We have to agree to dismantle these systems together," he said. The U.S., EC and Japan have the obligation to take the lead in agricultural reform, he said. For that reason, U.S. officials will push for farm reform at the Venice meeting and have made it a top priority for GATT negotiations in Geneva. Reuter 
U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE FUNDING ACCORD SEEN NEAR

The U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Transportation are close to agreement on how to fund the increasing share of food aid to be shipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill provision on cargo preference. Melvin Sims, USDA's general sales manager told a House Agriculture Appropriations subcommittee hearing that the two departments are negotiating a "memorandum of understanding" on cargo preference. Under a 1985 farm bill provision, the percentage of food aid shipments carried on U.S. flag vessels was to gradually increase over three years to 75 pct in 1988. The increased cost of using U.S. vessels was to be funded by the Transportation Department instead of USDA. However, USDA officials said Transportation has so far contributed no money. The agreement between USDA and Transportation is expected to resolve the matter, USDA officials said. Tom Kay, administrator of the USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service said yesterday the requirement that more food aid shipments be carried on U.S. vessels has been difficult to meet. "As the tonnage (required under cargo preference) goes up, its going to be harder and harder to meet," Kay said. Two farm state Congressmen, Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) and Glenn English (D-Okla.) said cargo preference makes U.S. farm export programs more costly and the program should be eliminated. In the past, farm interests opposed to cargo preference have been defeated in Congress by the maritime interests who view cargo preference as vital to the U.S. shipping fleet. Reuter 
NORTH KOREA WELCOMES CONTACT WITH U.S. DIPLOMATS

North Korea said it welcomed new contacts between Korean and U.S. Diplomats and would impose no restrictions on them, the New China News Agency reported from Pyongyang. A North Korean Foreign Ministry statement said it hoped diplomatic contact would help "promote sincere conversations with goodwill and broad-mindedness," the agency said. The United States on March 9 lifted its ban on its diplomats speaking with North Korean diplomats on neutral territory. REUTER 
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - SPENDING, M-1

Brisk increases in personal income and consumption are to appear in February data released today, but the bond market's recent sluggishness suggests there will be no major price reaction unless the rises are much larger than expected, economists said. Personal income is forecast to rise by 0.6 to 0.8 pct, compared with no change in January, while consumption expenditures are projected to increase 1.4 to 1.6 pct, reversing most of the two pct drop recorded in January. M-1 money supply data for the March 9 week will also be released. An increase of some 2.3 billion dlrs is expected. Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc expects a one pct rise in income, led by a strong gain in wage and salary disbursements in February. Nonfarm payrolls expanded by 337,000 jobs in February, the average workweek lengthened by 0.6 pct and hourly wages rose by four cts, he noted in a report. Vigorous spending on durable goods last month, especially cars, foreshadow a rise of at least 1.5 pct in consumption, he added. The prospect of bearish data did not trouble the bond market much yesterday, with the 30-year Treasury bond slipping just 7/32 to 99-28/32 for a yield of 7.51 pct. Analysts said the market is still trapped in a narrow range, desperately seeking direction. "Seasonally adjusted, it's already December in the bond market," quipped Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc. Paul Boltz of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc said the steadiness of long bond yields around 7.5 pct, despite some signs of a stronger economy, probably reflects expectations that inflation will remain subdued. But he warned that this assumption might not be justified. "It took the bond market a long while to see that inflation was not returning to double digits, and now that it has learned that lesson, it may be a little slow to see that a four to five pct inflation is a real possibility ahead," Boltz said in a report. After trading late yesterday at 5-15/16 pct, Fed funds were indicated by brokers to open comfortably at 5-15/16, six pct. Reuter 
U.S. DELEGATION HOPES FOR VEG OILS TAX DEFEAT

American soybean producers and processors are hoping the proposed EC tax on vegetable oils and fats will not be imposed, but say the U.S. Is prepared to retaliate if it is introduced. Wayne Bennett, the American Soybean Association's first vice president, told a news conference the U.S. Administration would not hesitate to retaliate, but both producers and processors were trying to solve the issue through negotiation. U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng said in a letter to EC officials that U.S. Retaliatory measures would cover more than agricultural products if the tax was imposed, Bennett said. The ASA and National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) delegations will meet top West German government officials today and tomorrow to lobby for support. Bennett said West Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal oppose the tax, but Italy and Belgium seem to have taken a hardline view on the issue. "Europeans in favour of the tax say it would be to their advantage economically, but that is not correct because we would hit back," NSPA chairman Jack Reed said. This step would be very expensive for all and no one would emerge as a winner if the tax were introduced, he said. Reed pointed out the U.S. Administration and the soybean industry view the EC proposal as violating the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The proposed tax also violates the zero duty bindings agreed between the EC and U.S. In 1962, he said. Under the zero duty bindings pact U.S. Soybeans and products can be exported to the Community duty-free. REUTER 
CBT HEAD CONFIDENT OF SEPARATE CBT, MCE LIMITS

Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, President Thomas Donovan said he was confident the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, would not force the CBT and the MidAmerica Commodity Exchange, MCE, to merge speculative position limits on futures contracts traded on the two exchanges. Last month CFTC proposed combining CBT and MCE contracts on corn, wheat, soybeans, soybean meal and oats for the purposes of applying speculative position limits. Donovan told Reuters he had spoken to CFTC officials about the matter and believed they would modify the proposal. CBT officials have complained the CFTC was reneging on a commitment made when the two exchanges formed an affiliation, and proposing to decrease spot month limits on the MCE contrary to congressional intent. Reuter 
CBT LEADERS PLAN APRIL TRIP TO FAR EAST

The two top officials of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, are planning to visit three countries in the Far East next month to drum up support for the exchange's proposed night trading session, CBT President Thomas Donovan told Reuters. Donovan said he and CBT Chairman Karsten Mahlmann will leave April 3 and spend two weeks in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Sydney discussing the night trading session with brokerage firms, regulators and exchanges. CBT hopes to launch the first U.S. night trading session at the end of April, offering Treasury-bond and T-note futures and options on the two futures contracts between 1700 and 2100 hrs central U.S. time (2300 to 0300 hrs GMT). Reuter 
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS FELL IN WEEK

New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in the week ended March 7 from 373,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,507,000 in the week ended Feb 28, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,477,000 the previous week. Reuter 
JEFFERIES <JEFG> CHAIRMAN PLEADING GUILTY, QUITS

Jefferies Group Inc said founder and chairman Boyd L. Jefferies has resigned and intends to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating federal securities laws. The company said neither Boyd Jefferies nor the company ever engaged in insider trading and neither he nor the company ever sought or communicated insider information or violated ny trust of confidence placed in them by customers. It said no governmental authority has ever alleged any such activity on Boyd Jefferies' part or the part of the company. The company said Boyd Jefferies has consented to an administrative order barring him from the securities business for at least five years and he has agreed to place his 13 pct holding in Jefferies Group stock in a voting trust during that period. The company said, without admitting any allegations made by the Securities and Exchange Commission, Boyd Jefferies, Jefferies Group and primary brokerage subsidiary Jefferies and Co also consented to an injunction barring any future securities laws violations. It said Jefferies and Co has agreed further to undertake reviews to assure that its internal recordkeeping and other control systems are in compliance with federal laws. The company said president and chief operating officer Frank E. Baxter will assume the added duties of chief executive officer. Boyd Jefferies had been chief executive. The company said the criminal charges against Boy Jefferies resulted from a transaction in which, on behalf of Jefferies and Co, he agreed to purchase stocks from entities controlled by Ivan F. Boesky and later resell the stock to the Boesky firms. It said "Within days of the purchase, the market value of one of the stocks fell sharply and, pursuant to their agreement, a Boesky entity paid Jefferies and Co three mln dlrs to offset the loss. The company said Boyd Jefferies will admit that following the loss he ordered that Boesky receive a bill for three mln dlrs for investment advisory and corporate finance services, although Jefferies and Co treated the three mln dlrs as an offset to the losses it experienced. It said by rendering the involice, Boyd Jefferies apparently enabled one of the Boesky entities to make a false entry in its books, resulting in the charge, to which Boyd Jefferies will plead guilty, of aiding and abetting one of the Boesky firms in making false entries on its books. The company said Boyd Jefferies will also plead guilty to a margin violation resulting from a transaction in which he caused Jefferies and Co to buy shares at the request of a customer in the company's trading account. It was expected that the customer would be responsible for any loss on the shares and would also receive any profit, and because the customer had not put up any funds for the purchase, Boyd Jefferies had in effect caused Jefferies and Co to finance the full purchase price for the shares in violation of margin requirements, the company said. The company quoted Boyd Jefferies as saying, "I fully accept sole responsibility for these transactions. I think it is appropriate that I suffer the consequences for my actions rather than the company." Jefferies Group said it expects no impact on its operations or client base from Boyd Jefferies' departure. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY CHIEF SEES PROMISE IN OIL-TAX CHANGE

Energy Secretary John Herrington said his proposed option to raise the oil depletion allowance to 27.5 pct was probably the most economically promising way to spur domestic production. The White House has said it would consider the option although it was generally opposed to any revisions in the new tax code. Herrington told a meeting of the Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association that the higher depletion allowance on new oil and enhanced oil recovery would cost taxpayers about 200 mln dlrs a year. The option was one of many contained in a report on oil and the national security the Energy Department sent to the White House on Tuesday. Herrington said of the increased depletion allowance option: "that is one that could significantly increase production at a very low cost to the American taxpayer." He again rejected an oil import fee as far too costly to the overall U.S. economy. Reuter 
U.S. PERSONAL INCOME ROSE 0.9 PCT IN FEBRUARY, SPENDING UP 1.7 PCT



U.S. PERSONAL INCOME ROSE 0.9 PCT IN FEBRUARY

U.S. personal income rose 0.9 pct, or 32.4 billion dlrs, in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3,581.3 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said. The increase followed a revised 0.2 pct rise in personal income during January. Earlier, the department estimated January personal income was unchanged. The February incomes rise was the largest monthly increase since a 1.2 pct rise in April 1986, the department said. It attributed last month's rise to several factors, including subsidy payments to farmers and government pay raises. The department said personal consumption expenditures were up during February by 1.7 pct or 49.1 billion dlrs to 2,855.9 billion dlrs after falling by 58.4 billion dlrs or two pct in January. Purchases of durable goods were up 24.8 billion dlrs last month after decreasing by 69.7 billion dlrs in January with sales of motor vehicles accounting for most of the February increase and the January decline, the department said. Purchases of nondurables rose 10.7 billion dlrs in February after a 300 mln dlr increase in January. The Commerce Department said wage and salary incomes were up 15.6 billion dlrs in February after an 8.6 billion dlr rise in January. Manufacturing payrolls increased by 2.4 billion dlrs last month after rising 1.9 billion dlrs in February with the gains widespread through durable and nondurable industries, the department said. Farmers' incomes increased by 12.2 billion dlrs in February after declining by 8.7 billion dlrs in January. Both last month's increase and January's fall in farm incomes was because of government subsidy payments, the department said. Personal tax and nontax payments fell 5.5 billion dlrs in February following a 19.5 billion dlrs January drop. The declines were a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986. Federal withheld income taxes were up in February from a month earlier but that was offset by declines in federal nonwithheld taxes and lower state and local income taxes. Disposable personal income in February after taxes was up 1.2 pct or 37.8 billion dlrs to 3,063.4 billion dlrs after rising 25.8 billion dlrs in January. The personal savings rate eased to 3.6 pct in February from four pct in January, the department said. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 305,000 head versus 307,000 week ago and 311,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 124,000 to 128,000 head versus 127,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago. Reuter 
GROWTH VENTURES <GVENC> DROPS UNITS

Growth Ventures Inc said it is discontinuing its participation in a Mexican joint venture formed to make flexible diskettes and is liquidating its wholly-owned Rock Hohl Interiors Inc subsidiary in Colorado Springs, Colo. The company said the resulting losses, lack of assets and negative net worth will in all likelihood make it impossible for Groweth Ventures to continue operating. The company said it is ending its participation in the Mexican venture due to continuing delays in obtaining sufficient working capital funding from government-controlled banks in Mexico. The funding is needed not only for joint venture operations but also for the payment on debentures to Growth Ventures from the joint venture, it said. It said since payment on the debentures has not been made, it does not have sufficient capital to support the continuing operations of Rick Hohl Interiors, and it will liquidate Rick Hohl. Reuter 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - U.S. DEFICIT WITH NICs

The U.S. trade deficit with Taiwan and Korea is expected to widen this year, despite some economic and currency adjustments by the two newly industrialized countries, economists said. "The surpluses that Taiwan and Korea ran with the U.S. in 1986 will get bigger. This time next year, the U.S. will be screaming at those countries about their exports," said Steve Cerier of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. Taiwan is currently the third biggest exporter to the U.S. after Japan and Canada, while Korea is the seventh largest. Faced with heightened protectionist sentiment in Congress, the Reagan administration has been stepping up the rhetoric against Taiwan and Korea, urging those countries to allow their currencies to appreciate and lift impediments to free trade. The thrust has shifted to those newly industrialized countries (NICs) amid signs the dollar's steep drop against the currencies of Japan and most EC nations -- previously the main focus of the U.S. drive to cut its trade gap -- is beginning to close the competiveness gap for American goods. U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker said recently that he expects a reduction in Japan's trade surplus this year. But U.S. manufacturers still are losing markets on their own doorstep to Taiwan and Korea, whose currencies have not risen as much as the yen and the mark. As major beneficiaries of soft oil prices and with low labor costs, Taiwanese and Korean exporters are well-placed to take up the slack. "In 1986, the fashionable comment in Washington was Japan-bashing. Now it's NIC-bashing," said Robert Chandross, of Lloyds Bank PLC. Asia's four main NICs -- Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan -- accounted for almost one-fifth of the overall 170 billion dlr U.S. merchandise trade deficit for 1986. The U.S. trade gap with Taiwan rose to 15.7 billion dlrs in 1986 from 13.1 billion in 1985, while the bilateral trade deficit with South Korea grew to 7.1 billion from 4.8 billion. And preliminary U.S. data show that the growth trend is continuing. The U.S. trade shortfall with Taiwan was 1.6 billion dlrs in January, up 24.4 pct from a year earlier. The gap with Korea was 700 mln dlrs, up 24.8 pct from a year ago. Lately both nations have said they will take steps to defuse incipient trade tensions. Korea said it is choosing many of the 122 items on which the U.S. wants it to cut import tariffs in order to deflect pressure for currency revaluation. Still, South Korean trade minister Rha Woong Bae said last week that Korea would maintain a trade surplus for three to five years as a way to cut its 44.5 billion dlr foreign debt. For its part, Taiwan said in January that it will cut tariffs on 1,700 goods sometime in the second half of 1987 and try to diversify exports. But vice economic minister Wang Chien-Shien said last month that he still does not expect Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. will fall in 1987. The NICs have made deep inroads into markets for textiles and electronic goods. But Korea is raising its profile in the area of "big-ticket" manufactured goods, notably cars. Korea expects its auto exports -- mostly for North America -- to balloon to 675,000 units in 1987 from zero in 1985. "The NICs' exports are almost all manufactured goods. When their exports rise it hits the heart of the U.S. manufacturing base. It cuts directly to us and to our customers," said Bob Wendt, manager for economic studies at Bethlehem Steel Corp. The U.S. takes 90 pct of Korea's computer products exports, 72 pct of its electrical appliances and 65 pct of its telecommunications equipment. A recent study by Morgan Guaranty Trust Co says Taiwan and South Korea are the most pressing trade issue for the U.S. While Hong Kong and Singapore run trade surpluses with the U.S., these are offset by their deficits with other countries. But Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, South Korea, stand in marked contrast. Both of these nations have moved rapidly into large bilateral surplus with the U.S. and major overrall trade and current account surpluses, the Morgan study says. Morgan expects Taiwan's overall trade surplus to grow to 18.5 billion dlrs in 1987 from 15.2 billion last year, and Korea's to increase to 6.5 billion dlrs from 3.5 billion. Concern about the NICs is not confined to the U.S. "A lot of Korea and Taiwan's exports to the U.S. have been at Japan's expense," said Richard Koss at General Motors Corp. February's Paris meeting of six major industrial powers exorted NICs to lower trade barriers and revalue currencies. But this two-pronged approach has drawn little response from the two nations so far and, in any case, will only work with a sizeable lag, economists say. The U.S. has not said how much it thinks the Taiwan's and Korea's currencies should climb. The Taiwan dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, has risen about 15 pct since September 1985 while the Korean won has risen about five pct. But in real terms the Taiwan dollar has been flat against the U.S. unit and the won has lost seven pct, economists say. "We've not seen any lessening of competition from those countries that we can attribute to currency changes," said Bethlehem Steel's Wendt. And so far, U.S. pleas for Taiwan and Korea to use their hefty export earnings to import more have had little effect. Moreover, it is uncertain how far U.S. protectionism will get given the administration's free-trade stance. "It's hard to see that anything will be passed much before year-end. And then the question is, will it have teeth?" one economist said. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX

Energy Secretary John Herrington said he would rule out a tax on gasoline as one option to help avert what his departmet has called the threat of increased reliance on foreign oil in the coming years. He said at a news conference that any recommendation he would make would have to increase domestic production, not cause widespread economic hardship and have a minimal cost to the U.S. taxpayer. On the grounds of increasing production, he said, "I would rule out a gasoline tax." Herrington also repeated he would rule out an oil import fee because of the widespread dislocation it would cause -- the loss of about 400,000 jobs nationwide due to higher oil prices and a drop in the gross national product by about 32 billion dlrs. He said an increased depletion allowance, to 27.5 pct, on new and enhanced production of oil and natural gas would be a cheap way to spur domestic production. He estimated this cost at about 200 mln dlrs a year. Herrington proposed the increased depletion allowance to the White House Tuesday but the White House reaction was cool. The White House said it would study the proposal, but was generally oppposed to altering the national tax code, just passed last year. Herrington, asked his reaction to the White House reaction, said, "If I were the White House, I would be cool, too." Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY CHIEF RULES OUT GASOLINE TAX AS WAY TO AVERT PENDING OIL CRISIS



USDA ASKS TIGHT INSECT RULES FOR GRAIN SHIPMENTS

The U.S. Agriculture Department is proposing tighter federal standards setting allowable limits on insect infestations in grain shipments. The changes in the standards would include the following: -- Establishing equal tolerances for the number of live insects in shipments of food grains, feed grains and oilseeds. -- Revising the definition of "infested" to give equal value to all insects injurious to grain. -- Establishing lower levels of infestations. In 1988, the infested level would be set at three or more live insects per representative sample (about 100 grams), in 1990 two or more insects, and in 1992 the final infestattion level would be set at one or more live insects per representative sample. -- Revising the definition of sample grade by adding a limit of 10 live or dead insects per sample. -- Revising the definition of sample grade for wheat by adding a limit of 32 insect-damaged kernels per 100 grams of wheat. The department asked for public comments on the proposals by April 17. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION

The Federal Reserve is expected to refrain from reserve-management intervention in the U.S. Government securities market, economists said. If the Fed does act, however, they said it would be likely to add temporary reserves indirectly by arranging around 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged 5.97 pct yesterday, opened at six pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter 
ASCS SEEKS OFFERS TO PROCESS CCC ROUGH RICE

The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) is seeking offers to process rough rice owned by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) and deliver about 27.0 mln pounds of milled rice for export shipment May 6-20 and May 21-June 5, an ASCS spokesman said. Offers must be received by 1300 CDT April 7, and successful offerors will be notified April 10. Reuter 
NEW NYMEX CHAIRMAN BRADT SETS MERGER PRIORITIES

William Bradt, new chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange, NYMEX, said his priorities are to merge the exchange with other futures exchanges at the World Trade Center and to reallocate space on the crowded NYMEX floor. Bradt, a local trader and member of the board of governors, assumed his duties yesterday and met reporters. "If all four exchanges become one, we would save incredible costs and become more competitive to Chicago," Bradt told Reuters. Bradt was referring to a merger among the four exchanges at the Commodity Exchange Center, an idea that has been discussed intermittently for several years. The four exchanges -- the Commodity Exchange, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, and the New York Cotton Exchange in addition to the NYMEX -- are all located on a single floor at the World Trade Center. Bradt said he would address the problem of space shortages on the exchange floor by reallocating booth space among the members, including sharing of booths. "If you are a company with potential business for the Merc, you should get a booth," he said, adding that an exchange committee is studying the problem. The election of Bradt, and of local trader Vincent Viola as an at-large member, increases representation of locals on the 15 member board to five members from four, according to a NYMEX spokesman. Bradt defeated vice chairman Stanley Meierfeld by a vote of 315 to 217. He will serve a two-year term and succeeds Michel Marks, who decided not to seek reelection after serving as chairman since 1978. Zoltan Guttman was elected vice chairman and Thomas McMahon was elected as trade house representative. John Tafaro, owner of Tafaro Brokerage, was reelected as floor broker representative on the board, and George Gero, a vice president of Prudential-Bache Securities, was reelected as futures commission merchant representative. Reuter 
SEC DETAILS CHARGES AGAINST JEFFERIES

Federal regulators said Boyd Jefferies, who resigned as head of his Los Angeles brokerage firm, took part in schemes to manipulate the price of a stock and in a stock "parking" plot with inside trader Ivan Boesky. In a civil complaint filed in U.S. District Court in New York, the Securities and Exchange Commission said Jefferies agreed with an unidentified person to have his firm buy up a large chunk of stock being issued in a public offering. Under the agreement, the firm, Jefferies and Co, drove the price of the stock up by one-eighth point by buying four blocks of the stock at or near the close of trading, the SEC said. Jefferies and Co's purchases of the unidentified stock accounted for 66 pct of the total trading volume of the stock on that day and were aimed at manipulation, the SEC said. The complaint did not identify the company whose stock was being traded, but said that the Jefferies and Co purchases took place sometime last year when another unidentified company, which owned a controlling interest in the company, sold several million shares of the stock in a secondary public offering. The stock purchases were made on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange, the SEC said. The person who made the alleged stock manipulation agreement with Jefferies was also not identified. But the person was later billed by Jefferies and Co in a phony invoice marked for investment banking services for the exact amount the firm lost on the deal when it later sold the stock on the open market, the SEC said. The payment, the amount of which was also not revealed in the complaint, was made later by another unidentified person after Jefferies sent a second invoice for a lesser amount, the SEC said. The firm recorded the payment as "other income," it said. William McLucas, associate director of enforcement at the SEC, declined to say why the agency decided against revealing the identities of other persons and companies involved in the stock manipulation scheme. "We just made a determination that this was the way to go at this time," McLucas told Reuters. The complaint went into far greater detail in its charges that Jefferies agreed with Boesky to "park" stock at each other's firms. Parking, or warehousing, stock, refers to deals where stock is held by one person or firm under an arrangement where it is actually under the control of someone else. Under the agreement between Jefferies and Boesky, Jefferies and Co would hold stock owned by Seemala Corp, one of Boesky's brokerage firms, for 31 days, after which Seemala would "buy" the stock back, the SEC said. Seemala realized all gains and sustained all losses on the stock held by Jefferies and Co during the period, agreed to compensate Jefferies and Co for carrying the stock and to pay more than twice Jefferies and Co's usual commission, it said. Seemala then agreed to hold stock owned by Jefferies and Co for a month under terms about the same as the deal in which Seemala agreed to park its stock at Jefferies and Co, it said. The agreement, which violated several securities laws, allowed Seemala to create a false appearance that no longer held the stock and could meet the SEC's net capital requirements, the SEC said. Jefferies wanted Seemala to hold some of its stock, the SEC said, so that Jefferies and Co could meet its net capital needs, the agency said. On March 12, 1985, Seemala "sold" Jefferies 810,000 shares oc Cooper Laboratories Inc for 11.7 mln dlrs, 600,000 shares of Southland Financial Corp for 17.3 mln dlrs and 500,000 shares of G.D. Searle and Co for 27.1 mln dlrs, it said. On March 20, Jefferies and Co "sold" Seemala 185,500 shares of American Broadcasting Co for 19.6 mln dlrs, 210,000 shares of Ideal Basic Industries Inc for 2.9 mln dlrs, 300,000 shares of ITT Corp for 9.8 mln dlrs, 105,000 shares of Phillips Petroleum Co for 4.0 mln dlrs, 70,000 shares of Pioneer Corp for 2.1 mln dlrs and 300,000 shares of Texas Oil and Gas Corp for 5.3 mln dlrs, the SEC said. The value of Seemala's stock at the time of the transfers was 56 mln dlrs, while Jefferies and Co's stock was worth 43 mln dlrs at the time, the SEC said. Within a month, Seemala and Jefferies and Co unwound most of the stock transfers with each others firms, the SEC said. But a major hitch developed in the deal when the price of Searle stock, which Jefferies and Co was holding for Seemala, dipped sharply, it said. On March 26 Seemala "bought" back its Searle stock for 23.4 mln dlrs, resulting in a 3.6 mln dlr loss for Jefferies and Co, the SEC said. Seemala then allowed Jefferies and Co to "buy" back some it the stock Seemala was holding for it at a 647,812 dlr gain and Boesky's firms later paid the Jefferies firm three mln dlrs, which it called "fees," it said. Among the violations Jefferies committed in the schemes, were net capital, record keeping, public disclosure and margin requirements, the SEC said. Under the settlement of the civil SEC's charges, which was announced simultaneously with the filing of the complaint, Jefferies and his firm did not have to admit or deny guilt. But they agreed to a court order barring them from further securities law violations. Jefferies also agreed to get out of the securities business for at least five years. Reuter 
AMEX APPROVES LISTING OF LANDMARK <LCO>

The American Stock Exchange said it has approved the listing of 12.3 mln common shares of Landmark Technology Corp. Trading of the shares will begin Friday, March 20. The stock is currently traded over the counter under the symbol LTCO. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at six pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
CHAMPION <CHA> IN 285 MLN DLR EXPANSION

Champion International Corp said its board approved a 285 mln dlrs expansion of its mill in Hinton, Alberta, Canada. The project will double capacity of the mill's pulping operation to 424,000 short tonnes a year. Champion expects the expansion to be completed by 1989. Reuter 
CME DROPS S AND P 500 FUTURES PRICE LIMIT PLAN

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange's board of the directors has decided to drop a proposal to place a limit on daily price movements of its Standard and Poor's 500 futures contract, CME President William Brodsky said. Brodsky told the Futures Industry Association that the exchange's board decided Tuesday to withdraw the proposal, which aimed to quell price volatility in the popular contract. He said the proposal to establish a one-year pilot program had generated much negative reaction among users of the contract and that the CFTC "was not comfortable" with the plan. "Now, given the CFTC's posture on our filing, we feel the negatives outweigh the positives," Brodsky said. Brodsky said market users were concerned that limits could "become self-fulfilling because they could force sales to (allow users to) avoid becoming locked into the market." He also said the board was concerned that the one-year pilot price limit might become permanent. "Rules when put in place sometimes don't come off," he said. Reuter 
INTELLICARD <ICRDC> GETS NASDAQ EXCEPTION

IntelliCARD International Inc said its common stock will continue to be quoted on NASDAQ due to an exception from capital asset requirements of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which it failed to meet as of December 16. The company said it believes it can meet conditions imposed by the NASD for the exception, but there is no assurance that it will be able to do so. Reuter 
KENTUCKY SMELTERS GET RELIEF ON HIGHER RATES

Owners of two aluminum smelters in Kentucky received temporary relief from higher electric rates after a decision Tuesday by state regulators denying a rate hike to (Big Rivers Electric Corp) of Henderson, Ky. But the owners of the smelters, (National Southwire Aluminum Co) and Alcan Aluminium Ltd <AL>, said further viability of the operations would depend in part upon how the rate case is eventually settled. "We're hoping for no rate increases but we can't say for sure. It's still possible we'll have to close the smelter," a National Southwire spokesman said. He said there were other variables to consider in any decision whether to close or continue the smelter, located in Hawesville, about 60 miles west of Louisville. National Southwire is owned by National Intergroup Inc <NII>, which holds about 55 pct, and (Southwire Co), which holds the rest, the spokesman said. A spokesman for Montreal-based Alcan said, "The decision is 48 pages long and is in legal-ese, so it certainly will be a long time before we can make a decision" about what it means for the Sebree smelter in Henderson, about 100 miles west of Louisville. "But we're delighted that Big Rivers Electric was denied the requested rate increase." A spokesman for the utility, a cooperative that generates and wholesales electricity to four distributors, said the requested increase was 7.5 mln dlrs a year over 1985 rates. The Kentucky Public Service Commission, in denying the increase, asked the utility to meet with creditors, which include Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC> and Irving Bank Corp <V>, and the smelters, to renegotiate a rate plan, the utility spokesman said. The commission suggested that Big Rivers Electric work out a flexible rate schedule with the smelters that would index their electric costs to the price of aluminum, he said. "We have always been amenable to try, as far as we can, to assure that the two aluminum smelters remain viable," he said. No meetings are scheduled and none have been planned between the utility, its creditors and the aluminum plant owners. The commission has set a hearing on the rate issue for July 28. Reuter 
AMEX TRADING ADAMS-RUSSELL ELECTRONICS <AEI>

The American Stock Exchange said it has started trading the common stock of Adams-Russell Electronics Co Inc, which had been traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
API SAYS U.S. CRUDE OIL OUPUT OFF FROM YEAR AGO

The American Petroleum Institute said that U.S. crude oil production in February declined 9.8 pct from year-ago levels to about 8.3 mln barrels a day. In its monthly report on U.S. oil supplies and stocks, API said that domestic demand for petroleum products, as measured by products supplied, continued to rise reaching 16.3 mln barrels a day in the month, up 1.5 pct from February 1986. API noted the drop in crude oil output coupled with a drop in natural gas liquids production, which was off 11 pct from February 1986 levels, represented a decline in U.S. production of more than one mln barrels a day. API said the decline in domestic production and the rise in demand brought petroleum imports to about six mln barrels a day in February, a 30.3 pct increase from last year's level. So far this year, API said growth in domestic demand, which was up 2.9 pct from last year's year-to-date level, has slowed in comparison to the accelerated growth in the last half of 1986. It said crude oil production for the first two months of 1987 was off 8.6 pct from the comparable year-ago period while crude imports were up 30.6 pct. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON URGES STRONGER ALLIED GROWTH

Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said that the U.S.'s main industrial partners should expand their domestic growth. In a speech to a women's group here, Johnson said, "There is room for stronger domestic growth in those countries ... strong enough to absorb growth in U.S. export markets." Johnson also said there was a better alignment of exchange rates now and the Paris agreement to stabilize currencies has brought western nations a long way towards establishing that goal. Johnson said, "The Fed supports this pattern of exchange rates ... and we'll see if it leads to a convergence in trade. Quite possibly it can be achieved." Johnson said the Paris agreement achieved a better alignment of exchange rates in exchange for stimulus by the major surplus countries. He said this was "a major improvement and a step in the right direction" and added U.S. allies look very strongly to a U.S. budget deficit cut. "There will always be a potential risk of breakdown in international cooperation" without a budget deficit cut. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON SEES INFLATION CONTROLLED

Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said inflationary pressures are under control and noted "wage and price pressures are very moderate." Johnson told a women's group that the U.S. was not seeing the kind of cost pressures of the past. He said the trade imbalance was a serious trouble spot and strong protectionist pressures, if translated into policies, could ultimately lead to higher inflation and a high interest rate policy by the Fed. Reuter 
U.S. GRAIN TRADE CALLS SHULTZ REMARK SIGNIFICANT

A statement yesterday by Secretary of State George Shultz after he met with wheat growers that U.S. agricultural products must be competitively priced was significant in that he recognized the importance of the Soviet market and the need for U.S. prices to be at world market levels, U.S. grain trade industry officials said. They said that Shultz's comments, while not explicitly endorsing subsidized wheat sales to the USSR, were noteworthy because they were not negative towards such action. In response to a query on what the State Department's position is on selling subsidized wheat to Moscow, Shultz told the leaders of the National Association of Wheat Growers that prices must be competitive if the U.S. is going to trade. The Soviet Union, the world's largest grain importer, has bought no U.S. wheat for more than a year, complaining the price was far above world market levels. A U.S. offer last fall to sell the Soviets lower-priced wheat through the export enhancement program, EEP, was also rebuffed due to the price. Shultz was said to be adamantly against the U.S. wheat offer last year and has been reported to be one of the major obstacles in making another subsidy overture to the Soviet Union, grain industry sources said. Intense speculation the U.S. might make a fresh EEP wheat offer to the Soviets has boosted grain prices significantly in recent trading sessions. Kansas City hard wheat futures rose another 2-1/4 cents by midday at 2.88-1/4 dlrs per bushel, while CBT March wheat was up 1-1/2 cents at 2.92-1/2 dlrs. "I'm not sure this is an about-face, but it's clearly a recognition that unless we're competitive, we won't sell to the Soviet Union," said a lobbyst for a major commodity group. "We have to be competitive. It's ridiculous to say that somebody is going to buy your product if they can get the same thing at a lower price somewhere else," Shultz told the farm leaders. "That is our approach in negotiations with the Soviets," he said. If those comments do signal that the State Department is no longer opposed to the U.S. selling wheat to the USSR under EEP, it certainly improves the chances for an EEP wheat offer to Moscow, an industry lobbyst said. National Wheat Grower's officials were taking a cautious attitude towards the secretary's comments. "His comments were not discouraging, but they didn't in our judgment promise any immediate action on EEP," an official with the wheat group said. The Wheat Growers official noted, however, that "there is significance in that fact that we haven't seen any significant negative commentary on the idea of EEP wheat to the Soviets." In a meeting with exporters this week, Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng refused to comment on their request that the administration offer subsidized wheat to Moscow, the officials said. An aide to USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, who is reported to be strongly opposed to EEP wheat to the Soviets, said that the Shultz comments "are consistent with what he (Shultz) has taught for years as an economist," but said they don't necessarily relate to the Soviet Union. Amstutz could not be reached for comment, and an aide to Lyng said Lyng would not comment on Shultz's statements. But trade sources were hopeful that the Shultz comments may indicate some movement towards EEP wheat to Moscow. "If he didn't say no, then there's a chance. This is potentially a positive development," a commodity source said. Reuter 
CONGRESSMEN URGE U.S. SOYBEAN PROGRAM CHANGES

Several leading farm-state Congressmen said they will press the U.S. Agriculture Department to implement some kind of marketing loan to make soybeans exports competitive while protecting farm income. Speaking at a House grains subcommittee hearing, chairman Dan Glickman, D-Kan., proposed that Congressmen and representatives of soybean growers meet with USDA on the subject in the next two weeks. "Let's see if we can try to push them (USDA) to do something without legislation," Glickman told the hearing. The current soybean loan rate effectively is 4.56 dlrs per bushel with no income protection, or marketing loan. David Haggard, American Soybean Association, ASA, president said USDA must make changes in the soybean program. The current soybean program "gave us the worst of both worlds," ASA's Haggard told the hearing. The 1987 loan rate is too high relative to corn and is encouraging an expansion of soybean production in South America, he said. At the same time, the U.S. soybean loan rate is too low to provide any income support for soybean farmers, Haggard said. "We need some kind of market loan," he added. The 1985 farm bill provides authority for the Agriculture Secretary to implement a marketing loan for soybeans but USDA so far has resisted pressure to use the authority. Representatives of ASA met earlier this month with USDA, but Haggard said USDA officials gave no indication if they would seriously consider offering a marketing loan. USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz yesterday said the soybean situation is a "dilemna" which has been studied extensively by the department. But he did not say what, if any changes, are under consideration. In his testimony, Haggard indicated there are ways other than a marketing loan which should be considered to help soybean growers, such as a so-called producer option payment, or a direct payment program. Haggard said barring any program changes, Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, soybean stocks, now at 385 mln bu, will rise to 500 mln by the end of August. A further 100 mln bu of soybeans could be forfeited between September and end-year. "Thus, CCC could own the equivalent of Brazil's entire soybean crop by the end of calendar year 1987," Haggard said. However, Haggard said that the U.S. should be cautious in making soybean program changes that might allow the European Community to challenge the U.S. program under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT. He noted that The EC imports one quarter of U.S. soybean production and loss of that market would be devastating. The Reagan administration has given "mixed signals" on whether it believes a marketing loan for soybeans could be successfully challenged in GATT by the EC, Haggard said. While the ASA position is to support a 5.02 dlrs per bu loan rate combined with a marketing loan, Haggard also endorsed a proposal by Rep. Jerry Huckaby, D-La., which would set a six dlrs per bu loan rate and apply a marketing loan. The Huckaby proposal is also supported by the ranking Republican on the House Agriculture committee, Rep. Edward Madigan of Illinois. Subcommittee chairman Glickman endorsed the need to take some action on soybeans, but cautioned that the marketing loan could mean a substantial increase in budget costs. Glickman noted that the Agriculture Committee must cut one to 1.5 billion dlrs from its fiscal 1988 budget and therefore must fit any soybean program changes into the overall budget. Haggard said at a soybean loan rate of six dlrs per bu combined with a marketing loan, the U.S. soybean price might fall to four dlrs per bu initially. This would cost the government a maximum of two billion dlrs. But he said the costs would decline as market prices recovered. Reuter 
CSCE PUTS ADDITIONAL MARGIN ON JULY COFFEE

An additional margin of 1,000 dlrs will be required on all July 1987 delivery coffee "C" contracts as of the opening of trade Monday, March 23, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, CSCE, said. The March contract ends trading this week, making May and July the two "spot," or unlimited, contract months next week. Members will then have to obtain a minimum 3,500 dlrs for net long or net short positions in the May and July contracts, including a 2,500 original margin plus the additional 1,000 dlr spot charge. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 900,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO THE USSR FOR 1986/87



U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 350,000 TONNES CORN  SWITCHED FROM UNKNOWN TO USSR FOR 1986/87



U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 143,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO TAIWAN FOR 1986/87, 1987/88



USDA REPORTS CORN SOLD TO USSR, TAIWAN

The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported new sales of 900,000 tonnes of corn to the Soviet Union and 350,000 tonnes of corn switched from previously announced unknown destinations to the USSR. The corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Long Term Grain Supply Agreement, the USDA said. The department said exporters also reported corn sales of 143,000 tonnes for delivery to Taiwan, with 56,000 tonnes for shipment in the 1986/87 season and the balance for shipment in the 1987/88 year. The marketing year for corn began September 1. Sales of corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement, which ends this September 30, now total 2.25 mln tonnes. Reuter 
CALTEX RAISES SINGAPORE OIL PRODUCT PRICES

Caltex Petroleum Corp, a joint venture between Chevron Corp <CHV> and Texaco Inc <TX>, said it raised posted prices for several petroleum products in Singapore, effective today. The company said its naphtha posting is up three cts a gallon to 43 cts. It said it is raising jet and kerosene postings 2.5 cts, bringing jet to 52.5 cts and kerosene to 51.5 cts. Diesel grades are up two cts, Caltex said, bringing both diesel gas oil (one pct sulfur) and 52-57 D.I. (55 cetane) to 52 cts a gallon, and diesel gas oil (0.5 pct) to 52 cts. The company said it is increasing medium and heavy fuel oil postings by one dlr a barrel. Medium is now 15.50 dlrs a barrel, and heavy fuel is 14.75 dlrs. Reuter 
LATIN POLICY ADJUSTMENT URGED BY CEA'S SPRINKEL

Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Beryl Sprinkel called on Latin American governments to adopt sounder economic policies and said U.S. banks' loans to those countries had already been written down in an economic sense. "Latin governments will have to adopt policies that promote growth for their own citizens," he said, adding that the record has been mixed. Brazil, he said, recently has backtracked from better economic policies and "obviously they have to change." Asked if U.S. banks ultimately would be forced to write down portions of their loans to Latin America, Sprinkel said, "In any realistic sense, economic sense, those loans have been written down." The banks could not sell the loans at par, he said, and the price/earnings ratio of major banks' stocks has not been doing very well. "Clearly the lenders have suffered," said Sprinkel. Reuter 
MEXICO TO SIGN LOAN AMID CALLS FOR CHANGE

Mexico's 7.7 billion dlr loan package will be signed in New York tomorrow amid increasing calls from both creditors and debtors for a streamlining of the tortuous process of raising such jumbo loans, bankers said. Pressure for change has mounted because the Mexican deal has been even more difficult to syndicate than bankers feared. Several tentative signing dates had to be scrapped and even now, five months after the loan was agreed with a 13-bank advisory committee on October 16, dozens of Mexico's some 400 creditor banks worldwide are still refusing to participate. The resistance to the deal must be seen alongside the fact that it is the largest loan for a Latin American debtor since the region's debt crisis flared up in 1983. Mexico will also sign agreements to reschedule 52.3 billion dlrs of debt. Moreover, as the first major package built on U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker's strategy of offering loans to countries willing to implement market-oriented, pro-growth policies, intense market scrutiny was only to be expected. Still, the split within the banks' ranks came as a shock. "This is not an unsuccessful operation, but we've had more bickering than ever," one senior banker commented. Officers at small banks that have sold, swapped or or written down their Mexican loans say they see no reason why they should throw good money after bad. Major lenders counter that small banks must share the responsibility of making new loans and cannot expect to keep receiving interest on old debt unless they join in new ones. Assistant U.S. Treasury Secretary David Mulford said recently the reluctance of small banks at one point endangered the entire Mexican package. Things have improved, but money center bankers are determined to keep hounding recalcitrant banks even once the 7.7 billion dlr target has been reached. The loan presently is about 98.5 pct committed. "People who are outside shouldn't think they've been saved once we get over 7.7 (billion dlrs)," one warned. But rounding up "free-rider" banks entails such a huge drain on management resources that more and more bankers are acknowledging that the syndicates may have to shrink. One idea is to levy new loan contributions on the basis of current exposure instead of outstandings at an earlier "base" date - August 1982 in the case of Mexico. Another streamlining idea is to allow small banks to escape by swapping their loans for "exit bonds" that a debtor would issue at a discount. Argentina has pressed for this solution, so far to no avail, arguing that the smallest 120 of its 360 bank creditors account for just one pct of its foreign bank debt and that the next 120 banks account only for a further six pct. Central bank president Jose Luis Machinea said Argentina may not receive the 2.15 billion dlrs in bank loans it is seeking until September, which would be a year after negotiations began with the International Monetary Fund. The protracted negotiations have damaged the confidence of investors in Argentina, forcing up interest rates and spurring capital flight, he said. "We have to introduce some common sense into the discussion," Machinea said this week in Cambridge, Mass. He was echoed by Mexico's deputy planning minister, Pedro Aspe Armella, who said the delay in signing his country's loan has made it difficult to map economic policy with any certainty. "It's a sad affair," he told the Cambridge meeting. Bankers said Mexico became so frustrated with the delay in the loan that it suspended its debt-equity swap program last month to put pressure on the banks. Other strains have intensified between U.S. and non-U.S. banks, partly because U.S. regulations and accounting rules discourage writedowns. Critics say this prompts U.S. banks to focus too much on ensuring steady interest payments from debtors in the short term, possibly to the detriment of longer-term solutions. Because more than half of the banks baulking at the Mexican deal are American, some foreign bankers think other U.S. banks should make up the difference. This issue of "national share" was defused on the Mexican committee but bankers say it will probably recur in talks with Argentina and Brazil, whose finance minister Dilson Funaro has already suggested separate negotiations with regional committees of creditors. Streamlining of the new-money process is running parallel with efforts to develop a broader "menu" of alternatives to new loans, such as trade credits or debt-equity conversions. "We must face the fact that greater flexibility in devising new money packages may, in effect, be essential to future bank syndications," Mulford said last week. He told the banks to stop complaining that there is no leeway in current procedures and to come up with ideas. Some steps have already been taken - interest payments for Chile have been stretched out and banks are debating whether to accept partial interest payments from the Philippines in paper instead of cash. Because the banks want to isolate hard-line Brazil by clinching a deal with Argentina as soon as practicable, bankers said the Argentine package is likely to be along the established lines of the Baker Plan. But some bankers are speculating that the Brazilian deal, when it comes, will be radically different. As such, the loan for Mexico could go down in the history books as the biggest but also the last jumbo. "I'm convinced it'll be the last one in this form," one banker said. Reuter 
TRANSCO PARTNERSHIP <TXP> GAS RESERVES RISE

Transco Exploration Partners Ltd said participation in 14 new discoveries increased its proved gas reserves to 558.1 billion cubic feet in 1986, up from 541.5 billion cubic feet in the previous year. Proved reserves of liquids remained about the same at 25.1 mln barrels, the company said in the 1986 annual just released by Transco Energy Co <E>, the majority owner of the Transco Exploration partnership. Transco said that anticipated oil and gas prices during 1987 would continue to exert pressure on the profitability of most energy companies. The Transco pipeline system reached permanent take-or-pay settlements on about half its committed gas deliverability and interim agreements for another 38 pct of its deliverability, the annual report said. The company said it paid a total of about 363 mln dlrs to producers through Februry one out of its 550 mln dlr reserve to settle the take-or-pay disputes. Transco said its gas pipeline delivered more than 1.2 trillion cubic feet last year and its marketing affiliate sold an average of 1.6 billion cubic feet of gas per day. The company's exploration partnership received an average price of 1.84 dlrs per mln cubic feet for gas sales during 1986, down from 3.04 dlrs in 1985. Sales of oil and condensate averaged 15.86 dlrs per barrel last year, down from 27.41 dlrs per barrel in 1985. Reuter 
U.S. COMMERCIAL PAPER RISES 2.98 BILLION DLRS IN MARCH 11 WEEK, FED SAYS



NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS DROP 572 MLN DLRS

Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 572 mln dlrs to 64.297 billion in the week ended March 11, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. Including acceptances, loans fell 475 mln dlrs to 65.16 billion. Commercial paper outstanding nationally increased 2.98 billion dlrs to 339.00 billion. National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. Reuter 
AMOCO <AN> OIL RESERVES DOWN, GAS UP IN 1986

Amoco Corp's petroleum liquids reserves total 2.42 billion barrels at the end of 1986, down from 2.77 billion a year earlier, but its natural gas reserves increased to 15.37 trillion cubic feet from 15.14 trillion, the company's annual report said. It said the drop in crude oil and natural gas liquid reserves reflected downward revisions of previous estimates caused by the sharp drop in oil prices last year. This accounted for 178 mln barrels of a worldwide downward revision of 188 mln barrels, with 158 mln barrels of the total revision occurring in the United States, the report said. Amoco said there were upward revisions in the size of its worldwide gas reserves totalling 404 billion cubic feet last year, while it discovered 568 billion cubic feet and purchased 298 billion cubic feet of reserves. Production of one trillion cubic feet offset much of these gains, the report said. All of the gas reserve purchases, as well as all of the 14 mln barrels of oil reserves bought in 1986, were in the United States, Amoco said, noting it has spent 1.1 billion dlrs to acquire U.S. producing properties over the past three years. Commenting on 1987, Amoco said acquisitions "will be an integral part of our strategy, should reserves become available at attractive prices." The company said it expects "the marketing climate for natural gas to improve in 1987, which should provide the opportunity for Amoco to expand sales. As prices and demand improve, we are poised to accelerate capital spending on our inventory of attractive opportunities." Amoco previously announced a 1987 capital spending budget of 3.2 billion dlrs. Such spending totaled 3.18 billion dlrs last year, down from 5.31 billion in 1985. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 500 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 9 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS AVERAGE 228 MLN DLRS A DAY IN MARCH 18 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 228 MLN DLRS

U.S. bank discount window borrowings less extended credits averaged 228 mln dlrs in the week to Wednesday March 18, the Federal Reserve said. Total borrowings in the week rose 83 mln dlrs to 502 mln dlrs, with extended credits up three mln dlrs at 274 mln dlrs. The week was the first half of a two-week statement period. Net borrowing in the prior week averaged 148 mln dlrs. Commenting on the two-week statement period that ended on March 11, the Fed estimated that banks had daily average net free reserves of 759 mln dlrs rather than the 660 mln dlrs first reported. A Fed spokesman told a press briefing that there were no large single day net misses in the Fed's reserve projections in the first week of the latest bank statement period. None of the 14 large money center banks borrowed from the discount window during the week and all of the Wednesday borrowing was made by the smallest banks. For the week as a whole, the borrowing was split roughly evenly between the large regionals and the small banks. Natural float ranged from a low of near zero on Thursday -- for which the Fed spokesman could give no particular reason -- to a high of nearly 750 mln dlrs on Tuesday. The Tuesday peak included about 100 mln dlrs of transportation float in mid- and south-Atlantic states. Noting that the weather was "basically good" for March, the spokesman said that transportation float averaged under 500 mln dlrs a day for the full week. Float related as-ofs were a negative 400 mln dlrs on Wenesday due to a number of unrelated cash letter error corrections in five districts. As-ofs peaked at just over 500 mln dlrs on Tuesday. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 500 MLN DLRS

U.S. M-1 money supply rose 500 mln dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.7 billion dlrs in the March 9 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 738.2 billion dlrs from 738.0 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 738.2 billion dlrs from 737.2 billion. Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 would be anywhere from unchanged to up five billion dlrs. The average forecast called for a 2.3 billion dlr increase. Reuter 
SEC OFFICIAL PROPOSES EQUITY, FUTURES TRADE HALT

Securities and commodity exchanges should consider establishing a mechanism for halting trading of equities, futures and options when there is unusual price volatility, a top Securities and exchange, SEC, official said. Richard Ketchum, director of the SEC's division of market regulation, said a "short, system-wide halt" of trading of stocks, futures contracts and options on futures contracts would "let everyone get a breath" in especially volatile markets. Ketchum made his remarks in connection with a Futures Industry Association panel discussion on stock index futures and stock market volatility. The SEC official did not attempt to define "volatile" markets. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Susan Phillips later told reporters that exchanges already have the authority to halt trading if an emergency is declared. But she said Ketchum's proposal was "something to look at" and that she expected the exchanges to explore procedures for making order imbalances public. William Brodsky, president of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, told Reuters that considering Ketchum's proposal would be a "worthwhile exercise," but that implementation of a trading halt mechanism posed "major, philosophical, economic questions." Ketchum said price limits on contracts "are not particularly useful in dealing with volatility." Earlier, Brodsky announced the CME board of directors had decided last Tuesday to drop a plan to set a 12-point limit on the daily price movement of its Standard & Poor's 500 contract. Reuter 
MAJOR HOME APPLIANCE SHIPMENTS UP IN FEBRUARY

Shipments of major home appliances in February rose 9.1 pct to 3.5 mln, up from 3.2 mln a year ago, reported the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers. It said year to date, total major appliance shipments rose 11.4 pct to 7.6 mln from 6.8 mln a year earlier. It said strong shipment gains in four of the five appliance categories resulted in the unprecedented monthly levels, with records set for shipments of refrigerators, automatic washers, disposers, dryers and dishwashers. Reuter 
REICHHOLD <RCI> RAISES SOME MATERIALS PRICES

Reichhold Chemicals Inc said its emulsion polymers division increased by nine cts per dry pound the prices of all styrene-butadiene and polystyrene latexes, effective May 1. It said the increase is in addition to recently announced increases and applies to carpet, paper, nonwovens, textiles, adhesives and other specialty end uses. Reuter 
SINGAPORE EXCHANGE PLANS OPTIONS CONTRACTS

The Singapore International Monetary Exchange Ltd, SIMEX, said it would launch at least two options on futures contracts this year. SIMEX said in a press release that the options contracts would be based on the currency and interest rate futures currently traded on the exchange and be started "toward the third quarter." SIMEX, which is linked to the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, currently trades three currency futures -- on Deutsche marks, Japanese yen and British pounds -- and two interest rate futures -- on U.S. Treasury-bonds and three-month Eurodollars. Reuter 
SHULTZ NOT OPPOSED TO WHEAT SUBSIDY TO SOVIETS

Secretary of State George Shultz has decided not to oppose any U.S. wheat subsidy offer to the Soviet Union and has left the final decision on whether to sell subsidized wheat to Moscow up to President Reagan and the Agriculture Department, a State Department official said. "Shultz feels like he fought the battle against a subsidy last summer, and he's not going to the mat again. It's now basically the USDA who has to make their decisions as to what they want to do," the official said. If USDA decides to go ahead with a subsidy offer to the Soviet Union, he said, "Shultz will not wage a vigorous campaign against it. He might not come out in favor of it, but he won't go to the President and voice his objections." In an official statement clarifying Shultz's remarks yesterday to leaders of the National Association of Wheat Growers, the State Department said, "Secretary Shultz expressed his belief that whenever possible, U.S. grain should be competitive on world markets, including the Soviet Union. The Agriculture Department is in the best position to determine whether consideration should be given at this time to extending to the Soviets a subsidy under the Export Enhancement Program." Although Shultz will not oppose a wheat subsidy to the Soviets, there remain obstacles to another subsidy offer to Moscow, the State Department official said. "Everyone in the government agrees that if there is a subsidy to be offered, we would not offer it unless we had a firm commitment from the Soviets that they would buy." USDA does not want a repetition of last summer when the USSR baulked at its offer of four mln tonnes of subsidized wheat, the official, who asked not to be identified, said. The Soviets rejected the U.S. offer then on the grounds that the 13 dlr per tonne subsidy was insufficient to bring U.S. prices down to competitive levels. The Soviets want a higher subsidy offer this time, the State Department source said. "What the Soviets want is something equivalent to the lowest price being paid by anyone in the world," he said. The Soviets argue that they are the best customer of the U.S. and that they are entitled to the best price, he said. Government and commodity sources also said there are elements in the USDA, most notably undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, who remain opposed to a wheat subsidy to the Soviets. "Subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union is still not a foregone conclusion," the State Department official said. Reuter 
EC OFFICIAL FAULTS U.S. TRADE BILL

Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, said pending U.S. trade legislation is a misguided attempt to deal with the nation's trade deficit and will spark retaliation if passed in its present form. "To think that you can deal with a trade deficit by legislation is a mistake," he told the Foreign Trade Association here. Denman told reporters that possible retaliation, which he warned of in a letter to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski, would not necessarily be on a product-for-product basis. "Retaliation does not have to be matched product to product," Denman said. He said in the case of textiles import restrictions, however, retaliation would be against U.S. textile exports. "Certainly, if restrictions were imposed on European exports of textiles to the U.S., the Community would be likely to retaliate with restrictions on U.S. textile exports to Europe," Denman said. He also took exception to U.S. proposals to require countries with large current account surpluses with the U.S. to cut those surpluses or face special tariffs. "This would conflict with international obligations, throw a large wrench into the current round of trade negotiations and could easily boomerang," he warned of the tariff proposals. Denman also took exception to U.S. efforts to seek reciprocity in specific trade sectors. "Forcing reciprocity in one sector by imposing barriers would simply lead to retaliation from the other party," he said, adding that overall reciprocity can only be achieved by trading off disadvantages in one sector for advantages in another. Reuter 
IMF OFFICIAL RESIGNS CHARGING U.S. LOAN PRESSURE

One of the top executives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has tendered his resignation charging that the United States has been pressuring the agency to reduce the conditions it places on some loans, monetary sources said. C. David Finch, an Australian who heads the IMF's exchange and trade relations department, told the IMF executive board on Wednesday that he planned to leave by the end of next month after 37 years with the agency. The sources said that Finch, in a statement considered unprecedented, told the board that the United States had brought undue pressure on the IMF to approve funding for Zaire and Egypt. "To resign in this manner is highly unusual, perhaps unprecedented," a monetary source said. Neither Finch nor U.S. IMF Representative Charles Dallara could be reached for comment. The IMF, since the emergence of the debt crisis in 1982, has pressed many countries to tighten their belts and cut back on social spending as conditions to granting assistance. The United States recently has been taking the position that countries that take needed economic reform measures relying more on market forces and private enterprise should be encouraged by assistance from the IMF and development banks. Zaire, under the government of President Mobutu Sese Seko has recently been taking many reform measures designed to heal its ailing economy. The IMF last year approved a 22-month loan package for Zaire totaling 270 mln dlrs. The United States has been considering the possibility of seeking access to a military base in Zaire but no decision has been reached. Egypt, for its part, has been holding talks with the IMF aimed at reaching a final accord on a new one billion dlr loan package with the United States pressing for a quick deal, according to the sources. However, they said a tentative plan for Egypt that is currently being reviewed by the management of the Fund prior to going to the executive board for full approval has raised a number of questions about the country's ability to repay. Egypt is also a linchpin in the broad framework of U.S. Middle East policy. The department headed by Finch, among other responsibilties, makes certain that IMF policies and loan conditions are wielded evenly among countries. Monetary sources have said that the United States had brought pressure on the IMF to approve a loan package for Mexico using economic conditions that have not been broadly used before, but Finch, according to the sources, made no reference to this. Under the debt initiative announced 18 months ago by Treasury Secretary James Baker, the United States made the decision that debtor countries should be encourged to grow out of their difficulties rather than rely on austerity measures. He also recommended that commercial banks provide 20 billion dlrs in new loans for the debtor countries while the mutilateral banks add some six billion dlrs over three years. A key part of the proposal gave the World Bank a much greater role in dealing with the debt crisis, in part because of its familiarity with developing countries and their problems. The initiative, while widely heralded as a good first step toward improving the the growing debt crisis, was viewed by some at the IMF as a rebuke of previous austerity measures insisted upon by the Fund in return for loans. REUTER 
U.S. SAYS NO SIGNAL BEING SENT BY SHIP MOVEMENTS

A U.S. Navy battle group led by the U.S. aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is in the northern Arabian Sea amid renewed concern about the safety of shipping off the coast of Iran, U.S. officials said today. But Pentagon spokesman Fred Hoffmann said that reports the naval strike force was in the region did not mean the United States was sending a new warning to Iran against escalating attacks on shipping in the Persian Gulf. "Nothing like that has happened," he said. "No signal is being sent." He said that the Kitty Hawk is operating in an area where it usually does. "It's normal. It's in the waters where it's supposed to be. It's been there for over a month." The Kitty Hawk and its force of warplanes is the mainstay of the U.S. Indian Ocean Battle Group which patrols a vast area extending from the Indian subcontinent through the Arabian Sea. With the Kitty Hawk and its group in the Arabian Sea to the south and the U.S. Mideast Task Force in the Persian Gulf to the north, the United States has 10 warships on either end of the strategic Straits of Hormuz. The Pentagon, as is its custom, declined to confirm the exact whereabouts of the ships or what they were up to. State Department officials cited concern about the safety of ships passing through the Straits on the vital oil supply run to the Gulf. Iran has conducted repeated attacks on shipping in the Gulf and U.S. officials have said that Teheran has recently equipped itself with powerful Chinese and Italian-made anti-ship missiles, posing a greater threat. Reuter 
TOFRUZEN <YUMYC> TO REMAIN LISTED ON NASDAQ

Tofruzen Inc said it received an exception to the NASD's asset requirement, allowing its units, common stock and warrants to remain listed on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
E.C. OFFICIAL SAYS FATE OF VEG OIL TAX UNCERTAIN

Whether the European Community's Council of Ministers will approve a proposed tax on vegetable oils that has sparked threats of U.S. retaliation is uncertain, an EC official said. "It is very far from certain that it will go through," Sir Roy Denman, Head of the EC Delegation in Washington, told reporters before he addressed the Foreign Trade Association. Denman noted Britain remains opposed to the plan and West Germany has opposed it in the past. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has threatened retaliation if the tax is approved, as it would limit U.S. soybean exports to the EC. Council action is expected soon. Denman said while the EC is willing to negotiate about agriculture in a new round of trade talks, it is unwilling to single out export subsidies on a negotiating agenda or put agricultural policy on a special fast track. "The key to a solution in this area seems to me not in the framing of the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) wording...but in tackling government subsidies to farmers on both sides of the Atlantic," he said. Reuter 
PRESIDENT REAGAN VOWS TO VETO ANY TAX INCREASE

President Ronald Reagan said he would veto any tax increases voted by Congress. "My pledge to veto any tax rate increase remains rock solid," Reagan said during a televised news conference. The president said he opposed efforts by some members of Congress to back away from deficit reduction targets set by the Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law. He urged passage of a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. "It's time Congress cut the federal budget and left the family budget alone," Reagan said. He said the congressional budget process was in desperate need of reform and urged passage of an amendment to the U.S. constitution that would require a balanced federal budget. "This yearly deficit feeding process must stop," he added. "We must act now to pass a constitutional amendment to balance the budget." In the meantime, he said, Congress cannot back away from the deficit reduction goals set by federal law he said. Reuter 
REAGAN DENIES TOLD IRAN PROFITS WENT TO CONTRAS

President Reagan denied he had been told that profits from sales of arms to Iran had been used to aid the U.S.-backed "contra" rebels in Nicaragua. "No, that is not true," he said before a televised news conference when asked about reports that he had been told about the money diversion by his former National Security Adviser, John Poindexter. Reagan was giving his first formal White House press conference in four months since the Iran arms affair burst into scandal with the disclosure profits from weapons sales had been diverted, possibly illegally, to the contras. He said the secret approach to Iran had resulted in the release of three American hostages held by pro-Iranian elements in Lebanon and that it might have freed more if the operation had not been made public. Reagan told reporters -- as he had told a presidential commission that investigated the scandal -- that he did not remember when he had approved an August, 1985, shipment of U.S. arms to Iran through Israel. Reagan opened the news conference -- seen as vital in rebuilding his damaged presidency and restoring his authority -- with a statement on the yawning U.S. budget deficit. He again stated his opposition to tax increases and called for a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. Asked if in hindsight he would again start a secret program to sell arms to Iran, Reagan said, "No, I would not go down that same road again." Tonight's news conference was widely seen as an opportunity for Reagan, 76, to demonstrate he was in command of affairs despite the crisis. Reagan said, referring to the Iran arms program, "If I hadn't thought it was right in the beginning, I never would have started it." He said he went into the deal because he was persuaded that he was not dealing directly with the kidnappers. "You cannot do business with them," he said. But "suddenly you have a third party there (Iran) ... and it was not trading with the kidnappers," he said. The news conference in the White House East Room lasted 32 minutes -- two minutes more than normal -- most of which was devoted to the Iran affair. At the last minute, a reporter asked whether Vice President George Bush had opposed the arms sales as Secretary of State George Shultz and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger had done. Reagan replied, "No," smiled, waved and walked away from the podium toward the White House residence. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS U.S. STILL PROBING ACID RAIN PROBLEM

President Reagan said the U.S. government is still looking into the problem of acid rain. "We're still investigating this," he told a nationally televised news conference. Reagan added that the government will now work with U.S. industry to help address the problem. However, he declined to endorse the writing of federal standards for emissions that would help alleviate the problem. The Reagan administration yesterday announced a 2.5 billion dlr, five-year program to deal with acid rain, a problem that troubles U.S. relations with Canada. Reagan was asked by a reporter whether the government should set emission standards. He responded that the deeper that officials went in examining the acid rain problem, the more complex it appeared. He said the government did not want to rush into adopting a measure that might ultimately prove fruitless. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS

President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil. President Reagan said during a nationally televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil is a problem that the administration is studying. "We have to study this more," Reagan said. "This is why we increased the Strategic (Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more," he said. Reagan said his administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. However, he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures. The Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic production is declining. It suggested options for the administration to consider, but made no specific recommendations. Reuter 
U.S. SAY SOVIET UNION HAS EXCEEDED MISSILE PACT

President Reagan accused the Soviet Union of exceeding a traditional restrictive reading of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty, but said the U.S. Saw no reason yet to follow suit. "We believe that the Soviet Union has been going even beyond a liberal interpretation of the treaty," he said at a news conference. There has been speculation the U.S. Administration was moving toward a looser reading of the treaty in order to permit the development of the "Star Wars" anti-missile system, but Reagan said no decision has yet been made. REUTER 
VOLCKER SAYS U.S. TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is a challenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching of Sputnik. "The international challenge implicit in our huge trade deficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch of Sputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly feared we were to be left in the wake of Soviet technological achievement," he said in an address to Florida educators. He said the trade problem underscored the need to reform the U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance. The Commerce Department reported last week that the nation's trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis, swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs. Volcker called on educators to stress the development of basic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them to help students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate. Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education of low-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics. REUTER 
VOLCKER SAYS BRAZIL DEBT MOVE WILL NOT HURT BANKS

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the suspension by Brazil of its foreign debt payments would not undermine U.S. Banks. But he told Reuters after a speech to educators that it was in the interest of U.S. Banks to complete debt financing plans soon with Brazil and other debtor nations. "I don't think it's going to undermine public confidence in the banking system from Brazil alone," he said. "But I would like to see further progress made on this whole situation." Brazil announced last month it was temporarily suspending interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of debt owed to private banks, opening a new round in the five-year-old debt crisis. Last week, Ecuador suspended interest payments to private foreign banks, which hold about two-thirds of its total 8.3 billion dlr foreign debt, citing severe damage to its oil industry caused by an earthquake. Citicorp <CCI> the largest U.S. Bank, said last week that it might have to reclassify most of its 4.6 billion dlrs in Brazilian loans as non-performing, thus removing them as part of the bank's expected income-producing assets. Analysts said such a move would sharply reduce Citicorp's profits and might result in similar measures by Brazil's other bank creditors. Volcker said he believed Brazil and Ecuador want to maintain continuity in their debt service. "It's fundamentally in their best interest. If they can get the financing and refinancing that's necessary, they may be able to make their economies grow again." Asked whether he expected other nations to follow the path taken by Brazil and Ecuador, he said the two countries were special cases. He did not elaborate. REUTER 
PHILIPPINE COPPER SMELTER FACES SHIPMENT DELAYS

Copper shipments are likely to be delayed because of power problems at <Philippine Associated Smelting and Refining Corp> (PASAR), the country's only smelter, a company official said. Asked to confirm reports by New York copper trade sources about PASAR's shipment problems, marketing manager Deogracias Madrid told Reuters, "They are partly correct. There could be a probable delay." Madrid declined to give more details, or production and export figures, saying the information could lead to speculation. PASAR's smelter is in the central province of Leyte. The New York trade sources said if PASAR's shipments were delayed, customers might have to turn to the London Metal Exchange for supply. "We have a commitment to our customers and I would not like to comment on that," Madrid said. A spokeswoman for the Chamber of Mines said Philippine copper production amounted to 222,644 tonnes in 1986, down slightly from 226,157 tonnes in 1985. She said production in the first two months of 1987 totalled 34,550 tonnes, compared with 36,462 tonnes in the same 1986 period. REUTER 
SAS POSTPONES PLANS TO BUY 12 MD-11S

SAS <Scandinavian Airline Systems> said it was postponing a decision on a 10-billion crown order for 12 McDonnell Douglas <MD N> MD-11 airliners following what it said was an aggressive counter-bid from Airbus Industrie. SAS signed a letter of intent for the MD-11s last December, but a company statement said the decision on whether to harden this up into a firm order would be linked to the outcome of negotiations with the United States on deregulating air fares across the North Atlantic. The SAS move, said by analysts to be a big blow to McDonnell Douglas, came following a Copenhagen board meeting of the airline in which the governments of Sweden, Denmark and Norway jointly own a 50 pct stake. The remainder is held by industry. A company statement said SAS would wait to see the outcome of the government-to-government negotiations with the United States, in which the three Scandinavian countries have demanded greater access to the U.S. Domestic market for SAS in exchange for deregulating prices across the North Atlantic. At present SAS is allowed to fly to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Seattle and Anchorage. SAS gave no details of the Airbus Industrie counter-offer for its long-range A340, but said it will study the bid further. Swissair yesterday confirmed an order for the MD-11 long haul jets worth 1.2 billion Swiss francs and said it had preferred the McDonnell Douglas planes over the A340, a project that has not yet been formally launched, as it met the airline's requirements better and would be able to enter service in 1990. SAS President Jan Carlzon announced the MD-11 order last December, saying the plane would replace the airline's current fleet of DC10s. The first of the MD-11s was to be delivered in 1991 for use mainly on its intercontinental routes. In January, SAS officials said Airbus had made a revised offer that included larger, more powerful engines and two versions of the four-engine plane. One would seat 220 passengers and another 260 against the MD-11's 265-seat capacity. The offer was part of a drive to secure at least five airline customers for the new aircraft to enable Airbus Industrie to launch production. Airbus is expected to decide whether to go ahead with the project next month. SAS officials earlier said they did not expect the first A340 to be delivered before 1992. McDonnell Douglas had given SAS until March 31 to agree to final terms for the MD-11 deal. REUTER 
REAGAN DEFENDS IRAN-DEAL, BUT WOULDN'T REPEAT IT

President Reagan, staying cool under a televised grilling on the Iran-contra scandal, insisted he has told all he knows about the crippling affair and said he would do it all differently given a second chance. "No, I would not go down that same road again," the president said last night during a 32-minute news conference, his first in exactly four months, when asked if he would again sell arms to Iran in hopes of freeing U.S. hostages in the Middle East. But he added, "I'll keep my eye open for an opportunity again for improving relations. And we will continue to explore every legitimate means for getting our hostages back." As expected, the televised conference was almost completely dominated by questions about the secret sales of U.S. arms to Iran and the diversion of funds to "contra" rebels in Nicaragua. From an investigators' standpoint, the toughest question concerned 76-year-old Reagan's knowledge of the contra operation. As expected, the president repeatedly stated -- now calmly, now with some fire -- that he knew nothing about that scheme, said to have been run by White House National Security aide Oliver North, since fired, with the knowledge of presidential adviser John Poindexter, now resigned. "No, that is not true at all," the president replied sternly when asked about a report Poindexter had told him, twice, about the secret channeling of millions of dollars to the contras. "When I went on the air right after the news broke (about Iran arms deal last November), I did not know at that time there was any money involved." He said he learned of the contra diversion -- which may have broken U.S. laws and will be the top priority of congressional investigative hearings on this affair -- only when Atty. Gen. Edwin Meese told him on November 25. Just as important from Reagan's standpoint, however, was the manner in which he handled his first non-scripted public accounting of the scandal since the details first began leaking out last November and plunged his administration into deep political crisis. He appeared to bring it off without major stumbles, abetted by a press corps that seemed at pains to maintain a civil manner until the very end when it crowded round him trying to get in one last question as he was leaving the rostrum in the White House East Room. He often responded slowly and deliberately but never seemed at a loss for words, or vintage Reagan mannerisms. At one point in the contra discussion he furrowed his brow in puzzlement as he said he was just as mystified as everyone about where all the unaccounted millions had gone from the Iran arms sales of 1985 and 1986. "I'm still wanting to find out the source of all the extra money, the bank accounts and where that extra money went," he said. At another point, he laughed off a question on whether he might have been told about the contra connection and forgotten, saying, "Oh, no," pausing to chuckle and adding: "You'd have heard me without opening the door to my office if I'd been told that." Reuter 
PRESIDENT REAGAN VOWS TO VETO ANY TAX INCREASE

President Ronald Reagan said he would veto any tax increases voted by Congress. "My pledge to veto any tax rate increase remains rock solid," Reagan said during a televised news conference. The president said he opposed efforts by some members of Congress to back away from deficit reduction targets set by the Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law. He urged passage of a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. "It's time Congress cut the federal budget and left the family budget alone," Reagan said. He said the congressional budget process was in desperate need of reform and urged passage of an amendment to the U.S. constitution that would require a balanced federal budget. "This yearly deficit feeding process must stop," he added. "We must act now to pass a constitutional amendment to balance the budget." In the meantime, he said, Congress cannot back away from the deficit reduction goals set by federal law he said. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS U.S. NEEDS TO LESSEN OIL IMPORTS

President Reagan said the United States must do more to lessen its reliance on imported oil. President Reagan said during a nationally televised news conference that the rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil is a problem that the administration is studying. "We have to study this more," Reagan said. "This is why we increased the Strategic (Petroleum) Reserve, but we have to do more," he said. Reagan said his administration has already proposed deregulating natural gas and eliminating the windfall profits tax on crude oil production. However, he complained that Congress had not yet approved those measures. The Department of Energy earlier this week released a report that warned of rising U.S. reliance on foreign oil imports at a time when domestic production is declining. It suggested options for the administration to consider, but made no specific recommendations. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS U.S. STILL PROBING ACID RAIN PROBLEM

President Reagan said the U.S. government is still looking into the problem of acid rain. "We're still investigating this," he told a nationally televised news conference. Reagan added that the government will now work with U.S. industry to help address the problem. However, he declined to endorse the writing of federal standards for emissions that would help alleviate the problem. The Reagan administration yesterday announced a 2.5 billion dlr, five-year program to deal with acid rain, a problem that troubles U.S. relations with Canada. Reagan was asked by a reporter whether the government should set emission standards. He responded that the deeper that officials went in examining the acid rain problem, the more complex it appeared. He said the government did not want to rush into adopting a measure that might ultimately prove fruitless. Reuter 
TRICO <TRO> GETS CHINESE CONTRACT

Trico Industries Inc said it has received a six mln dlr contract to supply hydraulic lift equipment for heavy crude oil production for the Chinese Ministry of Petroleum Industry. The company said the equipment is for use in the Laiohe oilfield 350 miles northeast of Peking and will equip a 140-well program. Reuter 
BONN EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR U.S. ON EC VEG OIL TAX

The West German government expressed support for the U.S. Position in opposing the proposed European Community tax on vegetable oils and fats, a U.S. Embassy spokesman said. The spokesman, speaking from Bonn, said, "We have good reason to think West Germany holds to its resistance to the proposed tax." Several top government officials told the American Soybean Association and the National Soybean Processors Association delegations there was no reason for American producers and processors to pay for EC agriculture, the spokesman said. European agriculture was facing severe problems, but both the Community and the U.S. Should work closely within the framework provided by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, he said. The delegations will continue their top level meetings in Bonn today but will not issue a statement before returning to the U.S. At the weekend. The EC and the U.S. Realised the tax issue would stay on the agenda for several months and there were indications that both sides would have to prepare for some tough negotiations, the spokesman said. REUTER 
GEODOME <GOEDF> TO START MINE CONSTRUCTION

Geodome Resources Ltd said following receipt of a feasibility study from Raytheon Co's <RTN> Stearns Catalytic unit, it will proceed with construction and pre-production stripping at its Sunbeam Mine in Custer County, Idaho, as quickly as possible. The company said the study found proven ore reserves of 3,302,000 short tons grading 0.077 ounce of gold per ton. It said the mine will operate at a rate of 626,000 tons of ore per year, with higher-grade ore being mined in the first three years for a rapid payback of capital costs. The company said the feasibility study calls for gold production averaging 41,000 ounces a year for the life of the mine and 50,000 ounces a year over the first three years, with 99,000 ounces of silver per year being produced over the miune life. Capital costs would be 22.3 mln dlrs with all-new equipment and 500,000 to one mln dlrs less with used equipment, it said. It said the mine would be operated by a contract miner but the associated mill by Geodome. Geodome said a new ore zone discovered last summer is not included in reserve calculations. It said eight of the nine holes drilled there have an average grade of 0.046 ounce of gold and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton. Also excluded are reserves of 1,400,000 tons of low-grade material that could be milled profitably at 425 dlrs a ton for gold. The feasibility study used a 350 dlr gold price. Geodome said operating costs of the mine will average 201 dlr per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs for the first three years, in constant dollars. Reuter 
VOLCKER SAYS TRADE DEFICIT IS MAJOR CHALLENGE

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the U.S. Trade deficit is a challenge for the U.S. Equal to the Soviet Union launching of Sputnik. "The international challenge implicit in our huge trade deficit has become the 1980s equivalent to the launch of Sputnik by the Russians in the 1950s, when we suddenly feared we were to be left in the wake of Soviet technological achievement," he said in an address to Florida educators. He said the trade problem underscored the need to reform the U.S. Educational system to improve economic performance. The Commerce Department reported last week that the nation's trade gap, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis, swelled to a record 38.37 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter, bringing the 1986 deficit to a record 147.71 billion dlrs. Volcker called on educators to stress the development of basic reading, writing and mathematics skills and urged them to help students adapt to the fast-changing economic climate. Volcker said the challenge was greatest in the education of low-income minority groups such as blacks and Hispanics. Reuter 
GEODOME SETS IDAHO GOLD/SILVER MINE CONSTRUCTION

Geodome Resources Ltd said following receipt of a feasibility study from Raytheon Co's Stearns Catalytic unit it will proceed with construction and pre-production stripping at its Sunbeam Mine in Custer County, Idaho, as quickly as possible. The company said the study found proven ore reserves of 3,302,000 short tons grading 0.077 ounce of gold per ton. It said the mine will operate at a rate of 626,000 tons of ore per year, with higher-grade ore being mined in the first three years for a rapid payback of capital costs. It said the feasibility study calls for gold production averaging 41,000 ounces a year for the life of the mine and 50,000 ounces a year over the first three years, with 99,000 ounces of silver per year being produced over the mine life. Capital costs would be 22.3 mln dlrs with all-new equipment and 500,000 to one mln dlrs less with used equipment, the firm said. It said the mine would be operated by a contract miner but the associated mill by Geodome. Geodome said a new ore zone discovered last summer is not included in reserve calculations. It said eight of the nine holes drilled there have an average grade of 0.046 ounce of gold and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton. Also excluded are reserves of 1,400,000 tons of low-grade material that could be milled profitably at 425 dlrs a ton for gold. The feasibility study used a 350 dlr gold price. Geodome said operating costs of the mine will average 201 dlr per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs for the first three years, in constant dollars. Reuter 
QINTEX SAYS PRINCEVILLE <PVDC> IN CREDIT DEAL

<Qintex Ltd> of Brisbane said it has arranged for a leading Australian financial institution it did not name to provide Princeville Development Corp with the letter of credit required by the terms of Qintex's proposed acquisition of Princeville. The company also said through yesterday, when its tender offer for 3,300,000 Princeville shares was to have expired, it had received over seven mln Princeville shares in the bid, which has been extended until March 23 at 1800 EST. Qintex said the letter of credit is to insure payment of Princeville's contingent subordinated notes that would be distributed to shareholders of record on the date immediately following completion of the tender offer. The company said it believes the conditions of the commitment letter will be satisfactory to Princeville. It said Princeville had previously held talks with a financial institution on obtaining a letter of credit but was unable to reach mutually acceptable terms. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES INCREASED TAX COMPLIANCE

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that over the long-term the tax reform bill and lower marginal tax rates should increase compliance with the tax law and bring in additional revenue. In testimony before a senate appropriations subcommittee Baker said no savings in the Treasury's budgetary requirements wil be achieved in the short-run by the new tax law. "The tax changes occurring in 1987 and 1988 under tax reform will not directly effect IRS enforcement activities until financial year 1989 and 1990." He told the subcommittee that the Treasury's objective was to strengthen the capability of the Internal Revenue Service to promote tax compliance and generate revenue. He said they were seeking funds to increase staffing to reduce the backlog of delinquent tax accounts, reducing pending tax litigation cases under appeal, and resolving unreported income cases disclosed through a program that matches third party documents to returns. "This request will continue our effort to build a stronger and more credible deterrent against non-compliance with tax laws," he said. Baker also told the subcommittee that the administration would continue the efforts to improve the management of the government's cash and credit, and its financial information. In addition a policy of full reimbursement to Federal Reserve Banks for the fiscal agent services they provide in marketing and maintaining Treasury securities will be continued. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SUPPORTS FED MONETARY POLICY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said in a newspaper interview that he supports the current course of Federal Reserve Board monetary policy. "The course of Fed policy is quite adequate as far as we are concerned," Baker said in an interview with the New York Times. In the interview, Baker declined to comment about the recent Paris accord among the six leading industrialized democracies when he was asked why the U.S. agreed to stabilize the dollar at current levels when the trade deficit hit a record level last year. Baker said in the newspaper interview that it was "a subject I prefer not to talk about." He said that if he explained why the U.S. agreed to help maintain the dollar at current levels "I would of necessity end up getting into some of the private agreements that support such and agreement" on the dollar. Baker was optimistic about Brazil, which has stopped interest payments on much of its outstanding debt with foreign commercial banks. "They are, after all, paying on time all the debt service and principal on their official debts, having just rescheduled with the Paris Club," Baker said in the newspaper interview. Baker said that Brazilian repreentatives had explained they intented to pay their commercial bank debts in full but needed time. Reuter 
SONEX RESEARCH <SONX> CUSTOM AUTO USES MORE GAS

Sonex Research Inc said its modified 1986 British Ford Escort passed the European emissions test, but reported the engine consumed 35 pct more fuel than the stock engine. Sonex said its engine is not equipped with a catalytic converter and does not use exhaust gas recirculation or an emission air pump. It said the company expected to realize a reduced fuel economy, but is working on improving fuel consumption. The company said after it installs the new fuel system, it will retest the automobile. In a separate announcement, the company said it received confirmation from the European Patent Office that Sonex successfully defended its BETA European Patent from a competitor. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER OPPOSES CLOSING BANK LOOPHOLE

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the administration still opposes Senate Banking Committee legislation that would close a key loophole in federal bankinng law. The loophole has spawned a proliferation of limited service banks known as non-bank banks that can engage in risky activities barred to traditional banks. Baker has been asked to support the legislation by Banking Chairman William Proxmire (D-Wisc). Proxmire's panel approved closing the loophole in a bill recapitalizing the thrift insurance fund. Baker said the administration supports moving a bill through Congress that would address only the recapitalization issue, for fear such "collateral provisions" as the loophole-closing measure would stall the bill. Proxmire later told reporters he backs the committee bill with or without administration support. "I'm going to push it through in any event," he said. The administration also opposes the committee bill on grounds it bars new banking powers. The administration is a long time backer of banking deregulation. Reuter 
U.S. GRAIN ANALYSTS SEE LOWER CORN, SOY PLANTING

Grain analysts surveyed by the American Soybean Association, ASA, projected acreage this year at 59.1 mln acres of soybeans and 64.7 mln acres of corn. In 1986, farmers planted 61.5 mln acres of soybeans and 76.7 mln acres of corn, according to the February 9 USDA supply/demand report. The USDA is to release its 1987 planting intentions report March 31. The survey included 15 soybean estimates and 13 corn estimates and was released in the March 16 Soybean Update newsletter sent to members. Estimates ranged from 56.0 mln to 63.0 mln acres of soybeans and 59.5 mln to 68.0 mln acres of corn. An ASA spokesman said the association plans no survey of farmers' planting intentions this year. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS TAX CHEATING UNDETECTED

Treasury Secretary James Baker told a Senate Appropriations subcommittee there is still lots of room for improvement in government programs to crack down on tax cheating. "I think we're far from the point at which we reach saturation," Baker said when asked at what point additional efforts to catch cheating become fruitless. He said Internal Revenue Service efforts would raise a projected 41 billion dlrs in fiscal 1988 compared to 18 billion dlrs in 1981. "So we are increasing," Baker said. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, economists said. Federal funds, which averaged 6.06 pct yesterday, opened at 6-1/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER OPPOSES SECURITIES TAX

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he opposes a new tax on securities transactions. "No," he said when asked by a reporter whether he favored such a tax, which has been advocated by House Speaker James Wright (D-Tex). He added, "Not unless you want to tax a whole bunch of little security holders, which is not a good idea." Reuter 
MEXICO SIGNS 7.7 BILLION DLR LOAN AGREEMENT

Mexican officials and representatives of about 360 creditor banks worldwide started to sign agreements for 7.7 billion dlrs in new loans, Citibank said as co-chairman of Mexico's bank advisory committee. The package, which was agreed in principle with the committee last October 16, is built on a core loan of six billion dlrs, of which five billion dlrs will be lent for 12 years with five years' grace. The remaining one billion dlrs is in the form of a co-financing with the World Bank, which will guarantee 500 mln dlrs. This loan is for 15 years with nine years' grace. The package also includes two contingency facilities totalling 1.7 billion dlrs. One is a growth-contingency co-financing with the World Bank for 500 mln dlrs, of which half will be guaranteed by the World Bank. The loan may be drawn to fund high-priority investment projects if Mexican economic growth fails to reach certain growth targets for the first quarter of 1987. Disbursements would be for 12 years with seven years' grace. Bankers said they expect the loan, which is available until March 1988, will be drawn down. The second contingency facility, for 1.2 billion dlrs, is designed to support investment in the public and private sectors. The loan may be drawn down until April 1988 but only if Mexico experiences a shortfall in public-sector external receipts and provided that Mexico first qualifies for drawings under a 600 mln sdr oil-contigency facility from the International Monetary Fund. This IMF loan would be triggered if the price of oil falls below nine dlrs a barrel for three months. Because of the level of public sector external receipts in the fourth quarter of 1986 and the first quarter of 1987, Mexico will not draw the first two tranches of the continency facility, totalling 451 mln dlrs, Citibank said. As previously reported, bank commitments to the new money package will also be reduced by 250 mln dlrs, representing the interest payments that Mexico will save this year, thanks to the reduced spread on the rescheduling. Under the rescheduling, Mexico is restructuring 43.7 billion dlrs of previously rescheduled debt over 20 years with seven years' grace. Maturities on another 8.6 billion dlrs of loans granted in 1983 and 1984 will remain the same. The interest rate will be at 13/16 pct over Eurodollar deposit rates - the margin that applies to the entire package. Rounding out the deal, the banks have agreed to prolong six billion dlrs of trade lines and to refinance some 10 billion dlrs of private-sector debt that comes under the Mexican government's exchange-guarantee scheme, Ficorca. The size of the package thus comes to about 76 billion dlrs, the largest ever assembled in the international credit markets, Citibank said. The loan is still only 99 pct subscribed and the loan books will be kept open for several more weeks to round up the final 100 mln dlrs and the approximately 60 banks that have so far refused to join the deal. Reuter 
REAGAN TO VETO 87.5 BILLION DLR HIGHWAY BILL

President Reagan said he will veto an 87.5 billion dlr highway and transit bill, citing his commitment to hold to spending cuts to meet budget deficit reduction goals. "I am adamantly opposed to the excessive spending that is in the bill as it emerged from a (House-Senate) conference committee," he said in a statement. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Reagan had reservations on 152 so-called demonstration highway projects and on the amount for transit projects. The bill called for transit projects totalling 17.8 billion dlrs, compared to 8.7 billion proposed by the administration. Fitzwater said, however, that Reagan supported the right of states to raise the highway speed limit to 65 mph from 55 mph, a provision that is also in the legislation. Reuter 
COMEX CONSIDERING NEW FUTURES CONTRACTS

The Commodity Exchange Inc, COMEX, is researching the possibility of offering futures contracts on foreign currency swaps and Ginnie Mae repurchase agreements, a COMEX consultant said. Kurt Dew, president of Risk Analysis Systems, said the idea was on the drawing board at the staff level and not near realization. Dew said the contracts would be logical successors to two contracts already proposed by the exchange -- futures on interest rate swaps and on Treasury repurchase agreements, or repos. Regulations recently proposed by federal bank regulators could enhance the attractiveness of futures contracts on currency swaps, he said. Those regulations would require banks to allocate a certain share of its capital to currency swaps, Dew said. Futures on currency swaps would not require capital allocation. A futures market in Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) repos would help investors outside the circle of primary dealers get the best possible price, Dew said. Dew emphasized that the COMEX board had not yet considered the contracts. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
 EC SAYS U.S. BROKE TRADE RULES IN AKZO-DUPONT ROW

The European Community Commission has charged the United States with breaking international trade rules by excluding Dutch-made fibres from the U.S. Market and said it would take the issue to the world trade body GATT. In the latest of a series of trade disputes with Washington, the executive authority alleged that a section of the U.S. Tariff Act was incompatible with the GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) because it discriminated against imported products in favour of domestically-produced goods. The Commission said it would ask Geneva-based GATT to rule on whether the section in question, which officials said had proved a barrier to many EC exporters, conformed to its rules. Commission officials did not rule out retaliatory measures if, after a GATT decision against it, Washington failed to bring the disputed section into line with international rules. The executive's decision to go to GATT follows a complaint to it by the Dutch company Akzo <AKZO.AS>, whose "aramid" synthetic fibres have been banned from the U.S. Market because of charges by the U.S. Firm <Dupont> that the fibres violate the American company's patents. Akzo alleged that the ban, imposed by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), was discriminatory and incompatible with GATT provisions. The dispute centres on the fact that section 337 of the U.S. Tariff Act gives the ITC jurisdiction over imported products. The EC Commission charged that EC producers did not have the same possibilities for defending themselves before the ITC as they would have in a normal U.S. Court. "Consequently the procedure followed...Is less favourable than that which takes places in normal courts of law for goods produced in the United States," it said in a statement. Reuter 
COMMERCE GROUP <CGCO> TO START TRADE ON NASDAQ

Commerce Group Corp said its common stock will begin trading March 23 on NASDAQ under the symbol "CGCO." The company is doing preliminary work necessary to the actual extraction of gold from the San Sebastian Gold Mine in El Salvador, Central America. Commerce said it and San Sebastian Gold Mines Inc have concession rights from the government of El Salvador to mine and extract gold from the San Sebastian Gold Mine. Reuter 
USDA NOT PLANNING ANY MAJOR PRICING CHANGES

The Agriculture Department is not considering any major changes in its pricing system for posted county prices, an Agriculture Department offical said. "We do not have current plans to make any major adjustments or changes in our pricing," said Bob Sindt, USDA assistant deputy administrator for commodity operations. U.S. grain traders and merchandisers said earlier this week USDA might act soon to reduce the cash corn price premium at the Gulf versus interior price levels by dropping ASCS posted prices to encourage interior PIK and roll movement. But Sindt denied USDA is planning any such changes. "If people are suggesting that we are going to make wholesale changes in pricing, we are not considering this," he said. Sindt, however, did not rule out the possiblity of implementing more minor changes in its pricing system. "We are continually monitoring the whole nationwide structure to maintain its accuracy," he said. "If we become convinced that we need to make a change, then appropriate adjustments will be made." Sindt acknowledged that concern has been voiced that USDA's price differentials between the New Orleans Gulf and interior markets are not accurate because of higher than normal barge freight rates. He said commodity operations deputy administrator Ralph Klopfenstein is currently in the midwest on a speaking tour and will meet with ASCS oficials in Kansas City next week. Sindt said a number of issues will be discussed at that meeting, including the current concern over the gulf corn premiums. He defended the USDA differentials, saying that these price margins reflect an average of prices throughout the year and that seasonal factors will normally cause prices to increase or decrease. The USDA official also said that only those counties that use the Gulf to price grain are being currently affected by the high barge freight tariffs and increased gulf prices. When asked if the USDA emergency storage program which allows grain to be stored in barges was taking up barge space and accounting for the higher freight rates, Sindt discounted the idea. He said USDA has grain left in only about 250 barges and that, under provisions of the program, these all have to be emptied by the end of March. Reuter 
LEADING ECONOMISTS CALL FOR MORE GROWTH ABROAD

A panel of four leading economists told a congressional hearing today that foreign economies will need to expand to avoid recession as the U.S. trade deficit declines. C. Fred Bergsten, a former senior Treasury Department official, and Robert Solomon of the Brookings Institution told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the major exporting countries risk recession if they do not expand because U.S. demand for imports is expected to fall. "They need to beef up domestic demand as their trade surplus falls," or unemployment will keep growing, Bergsten said. Bergsten predicted the U.S. trade deficit, which hit 169 billion dlrs last year, will fall 30-40 billion dlrs a year for the next two years as a result of the dollar's 35-40 pct decline since September 1985. The government should intervene to push the dollar down further if the previous declines do not lead to an improvement in the trade picture, if the U.S. budget deficit is not reduced and if foreign expansion does not occur, he added. Solomon said the dollar must fall further to compensate for the huge interest payments required on U.S. foreign debt. The Paris agreement between the major industrialized countries provided only for a pause in its decline, he said. Rimmer de Vries, senior vice president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co., said the U.S. trade deficit problem is a problem of lagging growth in industrial economies, prolonged currency misalignment, debt problems of the developing countries, and unbalanced growth in the Asian industrializing countries. John Makin of the American Enterprise Institute, suggested foreign tax cuts to increase demand and pick up the slack from the U.S. trade deficit fall. Reuter 
CBT HITS CFTC'S FOREIGN FUTURES PROPOSALS

Proposed federal regulations governing the sale of foreign futures and options contracts to U.S. citizens would strap U.S. exchanges, an official of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, said. Frederick Grede, CBT vice president of administration and planning, told the Futures Industry Association that rules proposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, would "handicap the ability of U.S. exchanges and futures commission merchants to compete internationally." The CFTC rules generally would require additional registration and disclosure. Grede said that speculative positions, hedging and aggregation do not exist on most overseas exchanges, and that the regulations would impose onerous requirements relating to the segregation of customer funds. CFTC Chairman Susan Phillips, acknowledging that the proposal was "controversial," said the commission would consider revising the proposals. Reuter 
GEODOME RESOURCES <GOEDF> TO PROCEED WITH MINE

Geodome Resources Ltd said based on a feasibility study of its Sunbeam Mine it will proceed with contruction and pre-production stripping as rapidly as possible. The company said eight of nine holes drilled on the new ore zone have an average grade of 0.046 ounces of gold per ton and 2.1 ounces of silver per ton. The deposit is 400 to 500 yards from the newly designed Sunbeam pits, has large tonnage and will be drilled off this summer, the company said. The study said ore reserves including dillution were 3,302,000 tons at 0.77 ounces of gold per ton at a cut off grade of 0.026 ounces per ton and stripping ratio of 4.24 to one. It said gold production will average 41,000 ounces per year for the mine life and 99,000 ounces of silver per year. It said gold production in the first three years should average 50,000 ounces per year. Operating costs are expected to average 201 dlrs per ounce of gold for the mine life and 171 dlrs per ounce in the first three years. Reuter 
SWISS PAVING WAY TO INDEX FUTURES, OPTIONS

Switzerland expects to launch fully computerized trading of financial futures and options in the near future, a senior Swiss official said. Alexis Lautenberg, minister for economic and financial services at the Department of Foreign Affairs, said a stock index based on issues traded on the three major Swiss exchanges is expected to be completed this month, marking "an important step towards the introduction of an option market and index futures." Trading of options will begin next year "with more than a dozen of the most actively traded shares ... and non-voting equities," he told the Futures Industry Association. The Swiss envision requiring dealers to handle transactions on the computerized system and market makers to trade specific equities, Lautenberg said. The Swiss official also said there would be limits on the positions and exercise of option rights and that firms would have to comply with minimum capital requirements under Swiss banking law. He also said "intensive consultations" were under way with a view toward allowing profits earned from traded options and financial futures to be considered capital gains. "It would follow that only when a buyer would exercise his option right by realizing a physical transaction would the stamp duty, or securities tax, be levied," Lautenberg said. Reuter 
AMEX LISTS LANDMARK TECHNOLOGY <LCO>

The American Stock Exchange said it has listed the common stock of Landmark Technology Corp, which had been traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
FTC URGES VETO OF GEORGIA GASOLINE STATION BILL

The Federal Trade Commission said its staff has urged the governor of Georgia to veto a bill that would prohibit petroleum refiners from owning and operating retail gasoline stations. The proposed legislation is aimed at preventing large oil refiners and marketers from using predatory or monopolistic practices against franchised dealers. But the FTC said fears of refiner-owned stations as part of a scheme of predatory or monopolistic practices are unfounded. It called the bill anticompetitive and warned that it would force higher gasoline prices for Georgia motorists. Reuter 
MEXICO WARNS OF WORSENING THIRD WORLD DEBT WOES

High interest rates, sluggish global economic growth and creeping protectionism are deepening the third world debt crisis, senior Mexican officials said. Finance minister Gustavo Petricioli said today's signing of a 76 billion dlr new-loan and rescheduling package for Mexico was the most comprehensive and far-reaching effort in debt management yet achieved for a sovereign borrower. But, in remarks prepared for the signing ceremony, he warned against complacency. "The debt problem is not solved. If anything, it has been exacerbated by recent events." "The inequities of the international economic environment conspire against the welfare and stability of developing countries," Petricioli added. The debt problem will not be solved unless developing countries are allowed to grow, he argued. "There will be no solution without the further development of trade throughout the world.". Director of public credit Angel Gurria told reporters that Mexico's economy should resume growth this year, but he said external conditions are not favorable. Latin America is grappling with adverse terms of trade, for instance, as underlined by the recent slide in coffee prices. Interest rates remain unacceptably high in real terms, Gurria added. "Inflation has literally disappeared from the face of the earth in the industrialized world, but interest rates are still near seven pct." Industrial powers must also improve the coordination of their economic policies to boost unacceptably low growth rates and to keep export markets open, said Gurria, who is Mexico's chief debt negotiator. The officials also had a blunt warning for those banks that refuse to participate in the loan package: Do not expect to get much business with Mexico in the future. About 60 of Mexico's 430 or so creditor banks worldwide have still to join the loan, but four more acceptances were received today, according to senior Citibank executive William Rhodes, who is co-chairman of Mexico's advisory committee. "Those who supported us today can be sure that Mexico will continue to be open and willing to share with them the business opportunities which its future growth will create. "Those few who have denied their responsibility have turned their backs on this remarkable effort of international cooperation, on the financial system and on their enlightened colleagues," Petricioli said. One way that Mexico could punish recalcitrant banks would be to deny, or at least slow down, applications to convert Mexican debt into equity investments within the country. "We will be a lot more expeditious in processing the requests of banks that have supported us," Gurria said, adding, "We have long memories." Debt-equity conversions are an attractive way for banks to provide clients with subsidized pesos for investment in Mexico and to collect handsome brokerage fees or reduce their own Mexican exposure in the process. The growing popularity of the scheme was underlined this week when American Express Bank, which has joined the new Mexican package, said it plans to convert 100 mln dlrs of its own loans into an equity stake in hotel projects in Mexico. Mexico halted the debt-equity program on Feb. 25 to force banks to concentrate on wrapping up the financing pakcage, and Gurria said it would resume once the first part of the six billion dlr loan that forms the core of the deal is disbursed. The loan is now 99 pct subscribed. Gurria said Mexico hopes to close the books by the middle of April in time for a drawdown by the end of April. Although the agreements were signed in the sumptuous surroundings of a midtown Manhattan hotel, the atmosphere of the signing ceremony was rather subdued, with bankers and officials showing little of the elation and relief that normally follows the conclusion of a mammoth deal. After five months of arduous work syndicating the loan, debt fatigue was apparent and the talk was of ways to make the financing process less cumbersome. "This (package) has been harder than all the others... I hope we find a way that's not so debilitating for the people who have to put them together," Gurria said. Reuter 
SEC HEAD NOMINATED U.S. AMBASSADOR TO NETHERLANDS

President Reagan is to nominate John Shad, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, as ambassador to the Netherlands, the White House said today. Shad, 63, a former executive with the Wall Street firm of E.F. Hutton and Co., would succeed L. Paul Bremer, now the State Department's chief counter-terrorism expert. The White House also said that Reagan will nominate career diplomat Sol Polansky, 60, as ambassador to Bulgaria. Polansky previously served in Moscow, Poland, East Germany, Austria and other posts. The nominations are subject to Senate approval. Reuter 
CONCERN OVER "EL NINO" IN PERU - USDA REPORT

There are heightened fears that "El Nino" may be returning to Peru with an intensity approaching the 1983 disaster, which affected the weather on several continents and caused widespread damage through floods and drought, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Lima said in a field report. Continued heavy rains in the northern coastal area, flooding of several major rivers and mud slides have led to increased concern, the report, dated March 17, said. However, it said official sources still believe that this year's El Nino will have only weak to moderate intensity. EL Nino is a phenomenon involving a shift in winds and waters in the pacific. The USDA report said that so far the El Nino now being experienced has not had an overall negative impact on agricultural production. Excessive rains in the Piura Pima cotton area may reduce yields by about 20 pct due to excessive growth too early in the crop cycle. Also insect damage to crops could be more extensive where excessive moisture exists, it said. However, the El Nino has resulted in a much improved supply of irrigation water in the major dams which will improve prospects for many crucial crops such as rice and corn, and slow the decline in sugar production, it said. If El Nino picks up momentum, Peru's fishing industry could receive a setback. But trade sources still believe the fish catch for industrial processing will reach 5.5 mln tonnes in 1987, almost 20 pct above last year, the report said. Water temperatures in the northern fishing areas are three to four degrees centigrade above normal but still not high enough to drive the fish to cooler southern waters, it said. It said there is still the outside chance that El Nino will intensify and carry on through late March, April and May causing problems as crops approach harvest. "There appears to be no way to project the course of El Nino -- only time will tell," the report said. Reuter 
ANALYST SAYS USSR WINTER GRAINS HURT BY WEATHER

The Soviet Union's winter grain crop is likely to have suffered losses due to dry planting conditions last fall and severe cold this winter, an analyst of world weather and crop conditions said. Grain analyst and meteorologist Gail Martell, author of the EF Hutton publication "Global Crop News," said in her latest report that the Soviets may import more grain, possibly wheat, from the U.S. due to potential crop damage. "Compared with last year, the outlook (for the Soviet winter grain crop) is far more pessimistic," she said. "But it's still too early to talk about disastrous losses. A lot will depend on spring weather, not only for the outcome of the troubled winter grain crop, but also for spring planting." Martell said the dry weather conditions last fall probably prevented optimal seed germination for winter grains. Key wheat growing areas of the southern Ukraine and North Caucasus received on 25-35 pct of autumn precipitation, she said. The bitter winter cold temperatures -- which broke record lows that had stood for four decades -- also may have taken its toll on Soviet winter crops, she said. However, she noted that most of the southern grain belt had ample snow cover, which should have well-insulated the majority of crop areas from severe frost damage. The USSR has already bought 20 to 21 mln tonnes of grains in the July 1986/June 1987 marketing year, primarily from Canada, the European Community, Argentina and Australia, Martell said. She cited a number of reasons besides possible crop problems that might point to additional Soviet import demand. Last fall's dry weather may limit livestock grazing on moisture-depleted pastures, while the cold winter weather necessitated supplemental feeding to keep livestock healthy. Martell was also skeptical of a Soviet claim for a 1986 grain harvest of 210 mln tonnes, and said the Chernobyl accident may have contaminated more grain than originally thought and have to be made up with imports. However, she said the U.S. remains a supplier of last resort for the Soviet Union, noting that the Soviets have only just recently begun their first U.S. grain purchases of the 1986/87 season by buying 2.25 mln tonnes of corn. Martell cited USDA statistics showing that since the 1980 grain embargo the U.S. is only a major supplier of grain to the USSR during years of heavy Soviet demand. In 1984/85, the U.S. supplied 41 pct of record Soviet grain imports of 55.5 mln tonnes. But in 1985/86, the Soviet Union bought 29.9 mln tonnes of grain and turned to the U.S. for only 24 pct of that total. While the USDA Soviet import target for grain for 1986/87 was 22 mln tonnes, many U.S. grain analysts have revised their estimates of Soviet imports up to 25-28 mln tonnes, she said. Reuter 
MORGAN STANLEY <MS> HAS MARKET-ON-CLOSE ORDERS

Morgan Stanley and Co <MS> said it entered market-on-close orders totaling 1.1 billion dlrs for stocks in the Major Market Index and Standard and Poor's 500 stock index. Morgan Stanley said its orders were entered in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission and New York Stock Exchange requirements. The firm did not specify the nature of its orders. Participants in the index futures markets said investors have been betting all day that the stock market will finish sharply higher but few were willing to make a firm prediction. Reuter 
MEXICO'S RESERVES REACH EIGHT BILLION DLRS

Additional capital inflows of 1.5 billion dlrs so far this year have boosted Mexico's reserves to about eight billion dlrs, director of public credit Angel Gurria told reporters. Money has been coming back to Mexico because of improved investor confidence and because a tight monetray policy has forced credit-starved industries to repatriate capital. Inflows totalled a billion dlrs in fourth-quarter 1986. Gurria said Mexico is not accumulating reserves for the sake of it. He said its new loans will increase the pool of funds available for badly needed investment. Once the first tranche of its new six billion dlr loan is drawn down in the second quarter, Mexico will still only have enough reserves to pay for imports and debt service for four or five months, Gurria noted. Nevertheless, Gurria said Mexico does not expect to draw on the commercial banks' 1.2 billion dlr investment-support contingency facility. That money will be available until April 1988 if Mexico's export receipts and the price of oil fall below certain levels. But Mexico failed to qualify for the first two drawings totalling 451 mln dlrs, and Gurria said today, "We expect we'll never have to use it." Gurria said Mexico will know by June whether it can draw on the second contingency facility included in the bank financing package - a 500 mln dlr growth co-financing loan with the World Bank. Finance minister Gustavo Petricioli said he had signed yesterday a 250 mln dlr loan with the World Bank to support the development of exports of manufactured goods. He also said the first 250 mln dlr tranche of a one billion dlr loan from the Japanese government to support steel, oil and export promotion will be disbursed at the end of the month. Mexico is also due to make the third drawing from its International Monetary Fund standby credit in the next few days based on a successful review of end-1986 economic results. Petricioli said Mexico is in the final stages of discussions which will determine quantitative economic targets for 1987 which will allow it to continue to draw from the IMF for the rest of 1987. Petricioli reported that Mexico has so far concluded eight bilateral accords with government creditors within the Paris Club. Sixteen governments signed the Paris Club umbrella agreement last September, which restructured 1.8 billion dlrs of official debt, and Petricioli said he hopes to finalize pacts with the remaining eight countries in the next few weeks. In keeping with the spirit of the September agreement, he said all countries from the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development have continued to provide export credit facilities for Mexico, despite the debt restructuring. Reuter 
CCC GUARANTEES TO TURKEY SWITCHED TO MEALS-USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has reallocated 15.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Turkey previously earmarked for sales of U.S. oilseeds to provide coverage for sales of U.S. protein meals in fiscal year 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the action reduces the guarantee line authorized for sales of oilseeds to 5.0 mln dlrs from 20.0 mln dlrs and creates the new line for protein meals. All sales under the credit lines must be registered and exports completed by September 30, 1987, it said. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS ON SEMOLINA TO EGYPT

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 6,000 tonnes of semolina to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the semolina is for shipment April-October, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 224.87 dlrs per tonne. The bonus was made to International Multifoods Corp and will paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, the department said. An additional 7,000 tonnes of semolina are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced August 1, 1986, it said. Reuter 
FREIGHT, INSURANCE PROPOSED FOR CCC SALES - USDA

the U.S. Agriculture Department is proposing to permit coverage of freight cost and marine and war risk insurance for sales of all agricultural commodities sold on credit terms under the Commodity Credit Corporation's, CCC, credit guarantee programs. The proposal only applies to commodities that are sold by exporters on a cost and freight, C and F, or cost, insurance and freight, CIF, basis, since these costs would be included in the exporter's sale price to the foreign buyer, it said. Under current programs, freight costs can be covered only for export sales of U.S. breeding animals. It asked for comments on the proposal by April 20. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS FOR CATTLE TO EGYPT

The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 186 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the cattle are for delivery May 7-June 7, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 1,888.06 dlrs per head. The bonus was made to First Interstate Trading Co and will be paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC stocks, the department said. An additional 7,959 head of dairy cattle are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced September 12, 1986, it said. Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 660 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 11 WEEK, FED SAYS



U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 660 MLN DLRS

Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 660 mln dlrs to 277.93 billion dlrs in the week ended March 11, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed said that business loans including acceptances declined 492 mln dlrs to 280.56 billion dlrs. Reuter 
LDC FOOD AID NEEDS DECLINE IN 1986/87 - USDA

Total food aid needs in 69 of the least developed countries declined in 1986/87, as requirments fell in many countries in Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In a summary of its World Agriculture Report, the department said grain production in sub-Saharan Africa was a record high in 1986, with gains in almost every country. However, food needs in Central America rose, worsened by drought-reduced crops and civil strife. Record wheat production in 1986/87 is pushing global wheat consumption for food to a new high, and higher yielding varieties have been particularly effective where spring wheat is a common crop, it said. However, may developing countries in tropical climates, such as Sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, and Central America, are not well adapted for wheat production, and improved varieties are not the answer to rising food needs, the department said. World per capita consumption of vegetable oil will rise in 1986/87 for the third straight year. Soybean oil constitutes almost 30 pct of vegetable oil consumption, while palm oil is the most traded, the department said. Reuter 
U.S. SUGAR PROGRAM CUT SENT TO CONGRESS BY USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department formally transmitted to Congress a long-awaited proposal to drastically slash the sugar loan rate and compensate growers for the cut with targeted income payments. In a letter to the Congressional leadership accompanying the "Sugar Program Improvements Act of 1987", Peter Myers, Deputy Agriculture Secretary, said the Reagan administration wants the sugar loan rate cut to 12 cents per pound beginning with the 1987 crop, down from 18 cts now. Sugarcane and beet growers would be compensated by the government for the price support cut with targeted income payments over the four years 1988 to 1991. The payments would cost an estimated 1.1 billion dlrs, Myers said. The administration sugar proposal is expected to be introduced in the House of Representatives next week by Rep. John Porter, R-Ill. Congressional sources said the program cut is so drastic it is unlikely to be adopted in either the House or Senate because politically-influential sugar and corn growers and high fructose corn syrup producers will strongly resist. The direct payment plan outlined by the administration targets subsidies to small cane and beet growers and gradually lowers payments over four years. It also excludes from payment any output exceeding 20,000 short tons raw sugar per grower. For example, on the first 350 tons of production, a grower would receive 6 cts per lb in fiscal 1988, 4.5 cts in 1989, 3 cts in 1990 and 1.5 cts in 1991. The income payments would be based on the amount of commercially recoverable sugar produced by a farmer in the 1985 or 1986 crop years, whichever is less, USDA said. Myers said the administration is proposing drastic changes in the sugar program because the current high price support is causing adverse trends in the sugar industry. He said the current program has artificially stimulated domestic sugar and corn sweetener production which has allowed corn sweeteners to make market inroads. U.S. sugar consumption has declined which has resulted in a "progressive contraction" of the sugar import quota to only one mln short tons this year, he said. This has hurt cane sugar refiners who rely on imported sugar processing. Furthermore, USDA said the current sugar program gives overseas manufacturers of sugar-containing products a competitive advantage. The result has been higher imports of sugar-containing products and a flight of U.S. processing facilities overseas to take advantage of cheaper sugar. USDA also said the current program imposes a heavy cost on U.S. consumers and industrial users. In fiscal 1987, USDA said consumers are paying nearly two billion dlrs more than necessary for sugar. "Enactment of this bill will reduce the price gap between sweeteners and help to correct or stabilize the many adverse impacts and trends which the sugar industry is currently facing," Myers said. The following table lists the rate of payments, in cts per lb, to growers and the quantity covered, in short tons recoverable raw sugar, under the administration's proposal to compensate sugar growers with targeted payments. QUANTITY 1988 1989 1990 1991 First 350 tons 6.000 4.500 3.000 1.500 Over 350 to 700 5.750 4.313 2.875 1.438 Over 700 to 1,000 5.500 4.125 2.750 1.375 Over 1,000 to 1,500 5.000 3.750 2.500 1.250 Over 1,500 to 3,000 4.500 3.375 2.250 1.125 Over 3,000 to 6,000 3.500 2.625 1.750 0.875 Over 6,000 to 10,000 2.250 1.688 1.125 0.563 Over 10,000 to 20,000 0.500 0.375 0.250 0.125 Over 20,000 tons nil nil nil nil Reuter 
LITTLE EFFECT SEEN FROM COLD STORAGE REPORT

The USDA monthly cold storage report for meats is expected to have little, if any, effect on livestock and meat futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange Monday and daily fundamentals will likely provide the bulk of direction, livestock analysts said. The increase of 66.4 mln lbs in total poultry offsets the 22.6 mln lbs decline in total red meats. Fundamentals may provide most of the direction in futures on Monday, they said. "I think the market is going to be looking at some other things and accentuate whatever the action of cash markets might be early next week," Jerry Gidel, livestock analyst for GH Miller, said. Shearson Lehman livestock analyst Chuck Levitt said futures will be in the shadow of a little larger seasonal hog marketings pace next week. Also, Easter ham business was completed this week and there may be less aggressive interest for pork in general next week. "We needed some help from the cold storage report to avert a possible setback next week in the pork complex," Levitt said. Analysts agreed with CME floor traders and called the belly figure neutral to slightly negative. Although belly stocks were down 33 pct from last year, they exceeded the average expectation and actually showed a lighter than expected decline from last month due to an adjustment to last month's holdings, they said. However, analysts noted that the amount of bellies put in storage has been light since the beginning of March and this is a potentially bullish situation. Glenn Grimes, agronomist at the University of Missouri, said, "I would not look for (belly) storage during the next month or two to be heavier than a year ago - I think it will be less." Reuter 
BIDS AWARDED FOR ELK HILLS CRUDE OIL

The U.S. Department of Energy said it has awarded bids for about 90,000 barrels per day, bpd, of crude oil from the Elk Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve in California. The contract period runs from April one through July one, the DOE said. Successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE are as follows - Texaco Inc's <TX> Texaco Trading and Transport 15,000 bpd at 15.79 dlrs and 2,200 bpd at 15.19 dlrs, Beacon Oil Co 7,000 bpd at 15.66 dlrs and 2,500 bpd at 16.04 dlrs, Golden West Refining 8,110 bpd at 15.42 dlrs. Successful bidders, the amount of oil and price per bbl, according to the DOE continue as follows - Chevron's <CHV> Chevron USA Inc 3,000 bpd at 14.51 dlrs and 4,000 bpd at 14.61 dlrs, Chevron International Oil Co 2,600 bpd at 14.41 dlrs and 2,800 bpd at 14.51 dlrs, Newhall Refining Co 6,000 bpd at 15.82 dlrs, Caljet Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.32 dlrs, Casey Co 4,000 bpd at 15.45 dlrs. Also, Cryssen Refining Inc 4,000 bpd at 15.47 dlrs, Edgington Oil Co 4,000 bpd at 15.54 dlrs, Sound Refining Inc 3,100 bpd at 15.51 dlrs, Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC> 3,000 bpd at 15.75 dlrs. Successful bidders, the amount of crude oil and the price per bbl according to the DOE continue as follows - Orkin Inc 2,679 bpd at 15.24 dlrs, Lunday-Thagard Co 2,511 bpd at 15.27 dlrs, Golden Eagle Refining 2,500 bpd at 15.37 dlrs, MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co 1,000 bpd at 15.81 dlrs, 1,000 bpd at 15.71 dlrs and 230 bpd at 16.02 dlrs, Mock Resources 2,000 bpd at 15.76 dlrs, Petro-Diamond 2,000 bpd at 15.46 dlrs. Reuter 
WALL STREET SURVIVES TRIPLE EXPIRATIONS

The four-times-a-year "triple witching hour" did not jolt Wall Street as much as it has in the past. Market averages finished sharply higher as stock index futures, index options and options on individual stocks expired simultaenously. Some analysts warned part of the gain may be retraced next week. But there were signs Wall Street is getting used to the phenomeon which causes a huge burst of activity in the final minutes. Officials of the New York Stock Exchange said the day went smoothly and efficiently. "This has been one of the few times that the consensus has been right," said Jim Creber, trader at Miller, Tabak, Hirsch and Co. He expects a "follow-through" Monday and Tuesday to the advance which lifted the Dow Jones Industrial Average 34 points for the day and 75 points for the entire week. Creber, whose firm was one of the first to get involved in arbitrage activity involving index futures and options, said the general trend of the market has been upward for months. "Every time the market comes in, somebody comes along with more money," he said. He said investors adding to Individual Retirement Accounts prior to a mid-April tax deadline and buying from Japanese investors are apparently helping push stocks higher. Ron Feinstein, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc, said reports of heavy Japanese buying, just prior to the end of the fiscal year in Japan, fueled bullish sentiment. He said investors who had long positions in stocks hedged with short positions in index futures rolled the expiring March futures over into June contracts. But he added different players with other goals also were active and there was no simple explanation of the market's gyrations. For example, Feinstein noted the June contract for the June Standard and Poor's 500 stock index future hit 300 about 15 minutes prior to the close of NYSE trading. In 12 minutes, the contracted dipped to 297.50. "That could have been a wave of selling from institutional people making a roll," he said. It was the first time a nearby contract of the S and P 500 hit 300. The cash index closed at a record 298.17. "It looks like the market is going to continue to go higher," he said. "Triple expirations didn't really mean that much, it was a strong day for stocks," said Steve Chronowitz of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. Chronowitz said the stock market has been underpinned by "good solid buying interest" which will cushion any pullback. Other investors who were long futures and short stocks bought stocks on the close today instead of rolling over, said Mark Zurack of Goldman, Sachs and Co. He cautioned against "over-dramatizing" the day's activity, which said was more a reflection of fundamental strength in the markets. Leigh Stevens of PaineWebber Group Inc said what he saw was mostly covering of short positions in stocks as index options and individual options expired. He said there could be a decline early next week in the stock market. "It looked like it worked well today," said Howard Kramer, asssistant director of market regulation for the Securities and Exchange Commission. But he said all of the data will have to be analyzed next week. He said there was relatively little commotion at the close, with about 50 mln shares changing hands in the final minute compared to 85 mln in the triple expirations three months earlier. He noted the Dow industrials jumped about 12 points in the closing minutes, a modest move for a 2333-point index. Kramer pointed out an SEC-NYSE measure to curb volatility, disclosure of "market-on-close" orders in 50 major stocks 30 minutes prior to the end of trading, showed imbalances of modest proportions. The disclosures are aimed at evening out volatility by attracting orders on the opposite side of the imbalance. The data showed more buy orders than sell orders for 47 stocks, a preponderance of sell orders for only one stock, and no significant imbalance for two stocks. The NYSE had tightened a rule governing what type of market on close orders can be accepted in the final half hour. Reuter 
CANADA'S CLARK SEES TRADE AS MOST URGENT PROBLEM

Trade is the most urgent problem facing U.S.-Canadian relations because of a pressing need to reach a new bilateral pact within the coming months, Joe Clark, Canadian secretary of state for external affairs, said. Negotiators for the two countries have been meeting for more than a year in an effort to work out an agreement. "The most urgent problem now is the trade question because that has to be decided within the next 10 months," Clark told the Commonwealth Club of California. "We have a fast track authority from your Congress for approval or rejection of whatever the negotiators achieve." Clark said that, as a practical matter, an initial agreement must be reached by late September or early October. He listed environmental questions, particularly acid rain, and defense as the second and third most important bilateral issues facing Ottawa and Washington. On Wednesday, President Reagan announced that he will seek 2.5 billion dlrs from Congress to address the acid rain problem. Some interpreted the move as a goodwill gesture in advance of his annual meeting, on April 5-6 in Ottawa, with Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. In a question-and-answer session with the public affairs group, Clark said that the two countries must find better mechanisms for resolving their trade disputes. "This rash of countervailing actions, where we acted on corn and you acted on soft wood and we both said they were quasijudicial -- the dispute resolution mechanisims in place now are not working adequately in either of our interests," he said. Ottawa also is seeking to change some of Washington's rules on government procurement that penalize Canadian businesses, he said. "There are a number of Canadian companies that, in order to secure substantial contracts in the United States, have had to move their head offices out of our country into your country because you have national procurement requirements," he said. In turn, he added, the United States would like to change some of the procurement requirements that exist at the provincial government level in Canada. Clark declined to forecast the outcome of the discussions. "What will come out of it remains for the negotiators, in the first instance, to propose, and then governments and congresses will have judge," he said. In his prepared remarks, Clark said that the United States has tended to take Canada for granted, although it exports to its northern neighbor more than twice what it exports to Japan. "Yet you bought almost 10 per cent more from Japan last year than you bought from Canada," he said. REUTER Reuter 
U.S. LAUNCHES INDONESIAN COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE

NASA launched an Indonesian communications satellite aboard a Delta rocket, marking the first international payload to be put into orbit since the Challenger disaster more than a year ago. The 43 mln dlr satellite, the Palapa B2-P, was launched as the result of an agreement reached last year between President Ronald Reagan and Indonesia's President Suharto when they met on Bali. Reuter 
NATURAL GAS SEEN RECAPTURING SOME MARKET SHARE

Higher crude oil prices will raise demand for natural gas, helping it to reclaim market share lost to heavy oil when prices plunged in 1986, analysts said. The analysts said that these efforts will be most successful in the industrial sectors of the economy with large and growing energy requirements. "Natural gas stands a good chance to recapture the share of oil supplied to electric utilities that it lost to the residual fuel industry last year," Michael Smolinski, an energy economist with Data Resources Inc, told Reuters. An estimated 200,000 barrels per day of residual fuel went into the utilities market at the expense of natural gas last year when world oil prices plunged, Smolinski said. Assuming oil prices hold above 15 dlrs a barrel, national average gas prices delivered to the utilities at a projected 2.10 to 2.25 dlrs per mln Btu would be very competitive, Michael German, vice president of economic analysis at American Gas Association said. The average delivered prices at the end of January were 2.10 dlrs per mln Btu, compared with 3.26 dlrs a year ago. "We expect natural gas to regain 250 to 400 billion cubic feet (of demand) in the overall energy market in the second and third quarter (1987)," he said. In addition to price competitiveness, availability will be an important factor persuading energy users to switch to gas, Frank Spadine, senior energy economist with Bankers Trust Corp. in New York noted. Spadine said the mild winter in many parts of the North American continent has led to a build up of gas inventories and less would be necessary to replenish underground storage this spring freeing gas for spot sales. These forecasts develop a strong counterpoint to the fears that natural gas suplies would be tight and prices significantly higher given a sharp decline in drilling last year. AGA's German contended that despite the drilling decline, much of U.S. proved reserves could be brought to production quickly through developments such as the infill drilling which permits more wells to be drilled in proved reserve basins. Citing recent EIA statistics, German said, the gas surplus was likely to contract from three trillion cubic feet in 1986 to two trillion cubic feet in 1987, but the surplus would not go away until 1990. Smolinski of Data Resources agreed that the surplus would persist until 1990. While gas supplies may tighten in certain consuming areas, notably in California and in the Northeast U.S., an overall shortfall appeared remote. Reuter 
PHILIPPINE DEBT TALKS TO CONTINUE ON SATURDAY

The Philippines and its bank advisory committee completed another round of debt rescheduling talks and will meet again on Saturday, a senior banker said. Although today's negotiations did not produce a final agreement, the decision to meet at the weekend appears to be a signal that the two sides are making progress. The Philippines seeks to restructure 9.4 billion dlr of its 27.2 billion dlr foreign debt. The interest rate to be charged on the debt and Manila's proposal to pay interest partly with investment notes instead of cash have been the main sticking points in the talks. Reuter 
ECONOMIST CALLS BRAZIL DEBT REQUEST MODEST

Brazil's attempt to seek better terms for paying off its 109 billion dlr foreign debt is responsible and modest, a former chairman of President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers said. "I think that what Brazil is calling for -- limiting its debt payments to two and one half pct of GNP -- is a responsible request on their part," economist Martin Feldstein said at a news conference. "It requires additional money on the part of the banks, but rather modest additional amounts." Feldstein is attending the annual meeting of the Trilateral Commission, a foreign policy group of more than 300 business and government leaders from North America, Europe and Japan. Feldstein, one of four members of a task force on Third World debt, said that Brazil's request would mean an additional credit of three billion to four billion dlrs from banks and international agencies. "Brazil's debt would increase in dollar terms but remain constant in real terms. The four billion dlr increase in Brazil's 100 billion dlr debt would represent no increase in the real inflation-adjusted size of its liability," he said. Feldstein said he believed current Third World debt problems were less serious than those faced by the international monetary system in 1983 and 1985. However, the European representative on the task force, Herve de Carmoy, chief executive international for Midland Bank PLC, disagreed. He called the present situation more difficult and, in a draft proposal included in the task force's report, suggested setting up an institution, possibly within the World Bank, with a fund that could deal with a future debt crisis. Commission discussions were closed to reporters but it was apparent from the news conference that task force members did not agree on all points in their report. One point of agreement, Feldstein said, was that debtor countries would need additional credit in the coming years if they are to enjoy satisfactory growth. Feldstein said the task force, which also included Koei Narusawa, economic adviser to the president of the Bank of Toyko, and Paul Krugman, professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, did not agree on how much credit would be needed. He said they also did not reach a consensus on how willing international banks, particularly those in Japan and Europe, would be to lend the money. The Trilateral Commission was set up in 1973 by David Rockefeller, former head of Chase Manhattan bank, and others to promote closer cooperation among the three regions. REUTER 
BAKER DENIES DOLLAR TARGET EXISTS

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker again said the meeting of six major industrial nations in Paris last month did not establish a target exchange rate for the dollar. Baker said in a television interview aired here yesterday: "We don't have a target for the dollar." He declined to comment on what might be a desired level for the dollar, saying: "We really don't talk about the dollar." He said protectionism was becoming "extremely strong" in the U.S. In response to widening U.S. Trade deficits and import barriers in other countries. "The mood in the United States is extremely disturbing. It's extremely strong," he said. "As I've said before, we sort of see ourselves as engaged here in a real struggle to preserve the world's free trading system, because if the largest market in the world (the U.S.) goes protectionist we run the risk of moving down the same path that the world did in the late 1930s," he said. While relative exchange rates had a role to play in defusing the threat of protectionism, it alone did not offer any solution, he said. "You must address this problem on the exchange rate side, but it cannot be solved on the exchange rate side alone. It's far more comprehensive and broad than that, and the solution of it requires a comprehensive approach," Baker said in the interview. Baker said it would be necessary for other countries to adjust their currencies upwards, as well as remove their barriers to U.S. Imports. But he did not elaborate or name any countries. REUTER 
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - MINI-REFUNDING

A hefty slice of new U.S. Treasury supply is not the most welcome prospect for a slumbering credit market, but at least this week's offerings should provide it with some focus, economists said. "Banks and mutual funds have cash that should be put to work, so the auctions should breathe some life into the market," said economists at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. The Treasury will place a 25 billion dlr package of two-year, four-year and seven-year notes on the sales block this week. The "mini-refunding," which will raise 9.27 billion dlrs in new cash, comprises 10 billion dlrs of two-year notes for auction on Tuesday, 7.75 billion dlrs of four-year notes on Wednesday and 7.25 billion dlrs of seven-year notes on Thursday. The market also faces the regular weekly three- and six-month bill auction today, amounting to 12.8 billion dlrs. The mini-refunding does not come at a particularly auspicious time for the market. Bond prices have been drifting sideways in a narrow range against the backdrop of a cloudy U.S. Economic outlook, diminished chances of a change in Federal Reserve Board policy and a stable dollar. Moreover, the bond market's inertia has compared unfavourably with the rash of activity taking place in high-yield markets overseas, like the U.K., As well as in U.S. Equities. But according to the Merrill Lynch economists, there are signs the pall hanging over the U.S. Bond market is lifting a bit. "Customer activity has been light, but all on the buy-side, and there is a marked absence of selling," they said in a weekly report. Philip Braverman of Irving Trust Securities Inc believes banks will snap up the two- and four-year issues at this week's sales. "The banks are in need of investments that provide earnings. Though the yield spread to the cost of carrying these maturities has been wider, it is still positive," he said in a weekly market review. But economists agreed not even the auctions will generate enough impetus for a major move. This will only come once the overseas markets have had their run. "Based on last week's events, there is little to indicate that the appetite for yield has begun to wane," said economists at Salomon Brothers Inc. Indeed, talk persisted last week that Japanese investors are planning to re-weight their portfolios in favour of the higher-yielding markets at the start of Japan's new fiscal year on April 1. And while traditionally the Japanese have not been big buyers of the shorter-dated issues on offer at this week's U.S. Auctions, such reports undermine market confidence. Even actions by the British, Australian and Canadian monetary authorities to curb the rise of their currencies should also enhance the attractiveness of their respective bond markets, the Salomon Brothers' economists said. Meanwhile, ecomomic releases are unlikely to enliven the U.S. Market unless they deviate widely from expectations, economists said. This week's economic calendar begins on Tuesday with February durable goods orders. Economists expect a rebound from January's depressed levels. Peter Greenbaum of Smith, Barney, Harris Upham and Co said several areas, including transport equipment, should have bounced back. But a decline in military capital goods will cap total new orders. He forecasts a rise of two pct after January's 6.7 pct slump. Some other economists foresee a gain as large as five pct. Friday's consumer price report for February is expected to show an increase of about 0.3 pct after a 0.7 pct January gain. Economists said energy prices -- the driving force behind the January rise -- rose more moderately last month, while food prices declined. Meanwhile, economists warned that the federal funds rate will be subject to volatility in the weeks ahead due to the approach of quarter-end and the mid-April tax date. Some economists expect the Fed to execute a bill pass this week because its adding requirement increases sharply in the new statement period beginning on Thursday. Fed funds traded at 6-1/16 pct late Friday and are expected to open near that level. REUTER 
IRAN SAYS IT INTENDS NO THREAT TO GULF SHIPPING

Iran said reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless, and warned the U.S. And other countries not to interfere in the region. Tehran radio, monitored by the BBC, quoted a Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying any attempt at interference would be met by "a strong response from Iran and other Moslems in the world." U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in remarks apparently unrelated to the broadcast, said the U.S. Would do whatever was necessary to keep shipping lanes open in the face of new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the Gulf. The U.S. State Department said two days ago Tehran had been told of U.S. Concern that Iranian anti-ship missiles posed a threat to the free flow of oil from the Gulf. U.S. Officials have said Iran has new Chinese-made anti-ship "Silkworm" missiles, which pose a greater threat to merchant ships than missiles used before. The Iranian spokesman said the reports that Iran intended to attack ships were "misleading propaganda." He said Iraq's President Saddam Hussein was the main cause of tension in the Gulf and said Iran would continue to use "all its legitimate means to stem the cause of tension." Weinberger said in a television interview in the U.S. "We are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital waterway." "We aren't going into any disclosures or discussions of what might happen, but we are certainly very sympathetic to and listening carefully to any suggestions for our assistance in keeping navigation free in that area," he said. Weinberger said U.S warship movements in the Gulf area were not unusual. A U.S. Navy battle group led by the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk is currently in the northern Arabian Sea. The Iranian spokesman was quoted by Tehran radio as saying the U.S. Was trying to build up its military presence in the region. REUTER 
BAKER WARNS AGAINST FORGIVENESS OF LATIN DEBT

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said any attempt to declare blanket debt forgiveness for major Latin American debtor nations might damage the world economy. In an article in Monday's edition of the Miami Herald, Baker also criticised the concept of short-term debt relief, calling it a "dramatic, overnight solution." "While these ideas may be well-intentioned and have some political appeal, they are impractical and counterproductive in the long run," he said. The article was published to coincide with a three-day meeting here of the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). Baker is the chief architect of the U.S. Strategy on Third World debt. Brazil, the Third World's largest debtor, last month declared a moratorium on interest repayments. It has given no indication of when it may resume interest payments, prompting fears that some large U.S. Banks may be forced into substantial debt writedowns and calling into question the viability of the U.S. Strategy. Baker, defending the strategy, said private commercial banks have rescheduled nearly 70 billion dlrs in debt since October 1985 at longer maturities and lower interest rates. "Together with expected progress in commercial bank discussions with Argentina and, we hope, Brazil, this should add up to substantial new lending for the major Latin debtors in 1987," Baker wrote. He estimated that debt-equity conversion plans accounted for 2.5 billion dlrs last year in four of the region's major debtor states. Such plans allow foreign bank creditors to sell Third World debt at a discount to investors who then become stockholders in firms in these countries. "These swaps aren't a panacea, but they do demonstrate how a creative free market can make progress in reducing the debt burden," he said. REUTER 
BRAZIL SEEKS TO REASSURE BANKS ON DEBT SUSPENSION

Brazil wants to resume interest payments on its medium- and long-term foreign debt as soon as possible and is willing to discuss ways of softening the impact of the payments suspension on bank earnings, central bank governor Francisco Gros said. Gros, speaking to reporters yesterday after his first meeting with Brazil's bank advisory committee since he was appointed last month, also promised a clear statement of Brazil's economic policy would be made in the next few days. But bankers who attended the meeting with Gros said it was inconclusive. The bankers also expressed disappointment Gros could not give assurances as to when interest payments on the 68 billion dlrs of medium- and long-term debt would restart. "It was all very tentative. You can't expect to get very far at the first meeting," one banker said. The meeting took place on the eve of the annual meeting here of the Inter-American Development Bank. The most urgent item on yesterday's agenda was the need for a legal rollover of some 16 billion dlrs in trade and interbank credit lines extended to Brazilian banks which expire at the end of March. Brazil has already frozen the lines to ensure it has enough credit to finance its day-to-day trade and commerce, but needs to request a formal extension of the commitments to head off possible lawsuits from disgruntled creditors. The issue is whether the 14-bank steering committee will endorse Brazil's request to the 700 creditor banks worldwide or simply relay it without comment. This delicate question was not resolved at yesterday's meeting, but lawyers from both sides will try to draft suitable language for a telex by midweek, Gros and the bankers said. Gros said he will also formally ask the banks for a 90-day rollover of some 9.6 billion dlrs of debt which originally matured in 1986 and is now due to be repaid on April 15. Bankers said the request is a legal nicety since the money is subject to the moratorium. Once interest on Brazil's debts becomes more than 90 days overdue, U.S. And Canadian banks must put the loans on non-performing basis and may book payments only as and when they are received instead of accruing the interest in advance. Citicorp has estimated its profits for the first quarter would be cut by 50 mln dlrs if it put Brazil on a cash basis. Other U.S. Banks have also warned of earnings setbacks. Gros said he wished the 90-day rule was more flexible and said he would be willing to sit down with the banks to see if there was a way round the problem. He did not elaborate. But, asked whether a bridge loan might be arranged to pay the interest, he said, "It could happen." Bankers said this possibility had not been raised at the committee meeting and dismissed it as inconsistent with Brazil's determination to find a long-term solution to the problem of servicing its 110 billion dlr foreign debt. Gros himself said pushing the problem away for 90 days at a time is not very useful. Only if Brazil has access to new loans can it grow, export and pay its debts over the longer term. "If the flow of funds dries up, a country like Brazil can't meet all its obligations," he said. Gros defended Brazil's recent economic record, noting inflation slowed in February, the trade surplus rose and the public sector budget was in operational surplus. But he said there was a need to spell out government policy, especially on prices. "It's necessary to clarify policy for internal and external reasons," he said, but declined to say what economic measures might be introduced. Once policy is in place, Gros said financing talks with the banks are likely to be tough and protracted, a sentiment echoed by the country's creditors. REUTER 
IADB DISPUTE HIGHLIGHTS LATIN DEBT CONFLICTS

Controversy surrounding U.S.-backed reforms in the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) underscores the mounting challenge to Washington's current debt strategy, according to Latin American officials and delegates to the IADB meeting that begins here today. The bank's policy-making board on Saturday postponed a decision on the reforms until June in view of strong Latin American opposition to U.S. Proposals to strengthen its control over lending to the region. Washington wants to involve the IADB in its debt strategy through increased lending, but as the bank's largest single shareholder it also wants to require countries to adopt far-reaching economic reforms to qualify for loans. The U.S. Push for IADB reforms, which began at last year's meeting in Costa Rica, is particularly sensitive in an institution Latin Americans have traditionally thought of as their own. "It's almost an issue of sovereignty for the Latin Americans," one IADB official said. With a 54.2 per cent voting bloc, Latin American nations have had relatively easy access to 35 billion dlrs in project loans since the bank's founding in 1959. The bank has also been run for the past 12 years by a Mexican, Antonio Ortiz Mena, who has been increasingly critical of U.S. Debt strategy in the last two years. Ortiz Mena says commercial banks must renew lending to the region if debtors are to grow and repay creditors. At a news conference last week he warned that Latin defaults were a distinct possibility in the long run. Brazil insists its debt service obligations should in no way interfere with growth priorities, a position putting the issue of debt relief squarely into focus for the first time, officials and delegates said. They said creditors are not ready to discuss debt forgiveness and prefer to look at schemes such as debt-equity swaps in combination with a continuing emphasis on economic reforms. Washington wants the IADB to impose greater conditions on lending, and has threatened to block increased appropriations for the bank if it does not get its way. Latin America, while retaining reservations, now accepts the principle of setting greater conditions on loans, but is unwilling to countenance U.S. Demands for greater veto powers on lending, officials and delegates said. Washington has pushed for veto power to be lowered to 35 pct from a simple majority as at present. Latin Americans are unwilling to go below 40 pct, which would oblige the U.S. To line up two other voters or voting blocs on its side. This attempt to weaken Latin America's voting power, and particularly a threat by Washington to reduce funds to the IADB unless its reforms are accepted, has created considerable resentment among Latin Americans. "Debtors have already shown considerable willingness to sacrifice over the last five years so economic adjustment is not at issue," one Latin American official said. The region has been hoping for a seventh replenishment of IADB resources of at least 20 billion dlrs for 1987-90, as against 15.7 billion for the previous four-year period. REUTER 
TAIWAN TO BOOST FARM IMPORTS FROM U.S., EUROPE

Taiwan is expected to boost agricultural imports from the U.S. And Europe in calendar 1987 to help balance trade, the Council of Agriculture said. A council official, who declined to be named, told Reuters the imports, which will include about seven mln tonnes of oilseeds, grains and dairy products, would be worth some four billion U.S. Dlrs against 3.72 billion in 1986 and 3.38 billion in 1985. Taiwan's surplus with the U.S. Rose to 13.6 billion dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985, government figures show. Government figures also show Taiwan's surplus with Europe rose to 1.53 billion dlrs last year from 543 mln in 1985. Taiwan's imports of U.S. Farm produce last year amounted to 1.41 billion dlrs against 1.52 billion in 1985. Imports from Europe rose to 182 mln U.S. Dlrs from 148 mln, the official said. He attributed the decline in the value of U.S. Imports to falling agricultural products prices last year. REUTER 
BAKER WARNS AGAINST FORGIVENESS OF LATIN DEBT

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said any attempt to declare blanket debt forgiveness for major Latin American debtor nations might damage the world economy. In an article in Monday's edition of the Miami Herald, Baker also criticised the concept of short-term debt relief, calling it a "dramatic, overnight solution." "While these ideas may be well-intentioned and have some political appeal, they are impractical and counterproductive in the long run," he said. The article was published to coincide with a three-day meeting here of the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). Baker is the chief architect of the U.S. Strategy on Third World debt. Brazil, the Third World's largest debtor, last month declared a moratorium on interest repayments. It has given no indication of when it may resume interest payments, prompting fears that some large U.S. Banks may be forced into substantial debt writedowns and calling into question the viability of the U.S. Strategy. Baker, defending the strategy, said private commercial banks have rescheduled nearly 70 billion dlrs in debt since October 1985 at longer maturities and lower interest rates. "Together with expected progress in commercial bank discussions with Argentina and, we hope, Brazil, this should add up to substantial new lending for the major Latin debtors in 1987," Baker wrote. He estimated that debt-equity conversion plans accounted for 2.5 billion dlrs last year in four of the region's major debtor states. Such plans allow foreign bank creditors to sell Third World debt at a discount to investors who then become stockholders in firms in these countries. "These swaps aren't a panacea, but they do demonstrate how a creative free market can make progress in reducing the debt burden," he said. REUTER 
BRAZIL SEEKS TO REASSURE BANKS ON DEBT SUSPENSION

Brazil wants to resume interest payments on its medium- and long-term foreign debt as soon as possible and is willing to discuss ways of softening the impact of the payments suspension on bank earnings, central bank governor Francisco Gros said. Gros, speaking to reporters yesterday after his first meeting with Brazil's bank advisory committee since he was appointed last month, also promised a clear statement of Brazil's economic policy would be made in the next few days. But bankers who attended the meeting with Gros said it was inconclusive. The bankers also expressed disappointment Gros could not give assurances as to when interest payments on the 68 billion dlrs of medium- and long-term debt would restart. "It was all very tentative. You can't expect to get very far at the first meeting," one banker said. The meeting took place on the eve of the annual meeting here of the Inter-American Development Bank. The most urgent item on yesterday's agenda was the need for a legal rollover of some 16 billion dlrs in trade and interbank credit lines extended to Brazilian banks which expire at the end of March. Brazil has already frozen the lines to ensure it has enough credit to finance its day-to-day trade and commerce, but needs to request a formal extension of the commitments to head off possible lawsuits from disgruntled creditors. The issue is whether the 14-bank steering committee will endorse Brazil's request to the 700 creditor banks worldwide or simply relay it without comment. This delicate question was not resolved at yesterday's meeting, but lawyers from both sides will try to draft suitable language for a telex by midweek, Gros and the bankers said. Gros said he will also formally ask the banks for a 90-day rollover of some 9.6 billion dlrs of debt which originally matured in 1986 and is now due to be repaid on April 15. Bankers said the request is a legal nicety since the money is subject to the moratorium. Once interest on Brazil's debts becomes more than 90 days overdue, U.S. And Canadian banks must put the loans on non-performing basis and may book payments only as and when they are received instead of accruing the interest in advance. Citicorp has estimated its profits for the first quarter would be cut by 50 mln dlrs if it put Brazil on a cash basis. Other U.S. Banks have also warned of earnings setbacks. Gros said he wished the 90-day rule was more flexible and said he would be willing to sit down with the banks to see if there was a way round the problem. He did not elaborate. But, asked whether a bridge loan might be arranged to pay the interest, he said, "It could happen." Bankers said this possibility had not been raised at the committee meeting and dismissed it as inconsistent with Brazil's determination to find a long-term solution to the problem of servicing its 110 billion dlr foreign debt. Gros himself said pushing the problem away for 90 days at a time is not very useful. Only if Brazil has access to new loans can it grow, export and pay its debts over the longer term. "If the flow of funds dries up, a country like Brazil can't meet all its obligations," he said. Gros defended Brazil's recent economic record, noting inflation slowed in February, the trade surplus rose and the public sector budget was in operational surplus. But he said there was a need to spell out government policy, especially on prices. "It's necessary to clarify policy for internal and external reasons," he said, but declined to say what economic measures might be introduced. Once policy is in place, Gros said financing talks with the banks are likely to be tough and protracted, a sentiment echoed by the country's creditors. REUTER 
NEXT WORLD TRADE NEGOTIATIONS MUST SUCCEED - NZ

Ministers from more than 20 nations were told by New Zealand that the next international negotiations on liberalising trade would be the last this century and the cost of failure could not be measured. Trade minister Mike Moore told his colleagues at a welcoming ceremony before two days of talks here that great progress had been made in preparing for the negotiations which must not be sidetracked. "We live in troubled and dangerous times for the world trading system," he said. "We have seen that the failure of the world trading system has caused great depression and conflict in the past. Our failure to maintain the momentum will be at great cost to us all," Moore said. "The cost of failure is beyond calculation. It is our last hope and best opportunity this century. We will not get another chance before the year 2000," he added. The ministers are in New Zealand to review world trade since the "Uruguay round" talks last September. The talks are also part of preparations for a full-scale June meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in Venice. The Uruguay meeting is considered by most countries to have been particularly successful, with northern hemisphere countries managing to have service industries such as banking and insurance included in the next full round. The southerners' goal of including agricultural and tropical products also was met. The meeting at this North Island tourist resort is described by participants as informal and no declaration is expected. Moore said one aim was to "instil a sense of political urgency to avert potential economic tragedy." Another was to seek ways of popularising freer trade to people who felt the pain of readjustment but could not see the benefits, as well as preventing "bush fires of confrontation while we proceed with orderly negotiations." The meeting is being attended by 25 overseas delegations including representatives of GATT and the Economic Community. The delegates include U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter. American sources say he is ready to state that the best way to reverse protectionist sentiment in the United States is to implement four key Uruguay proposals: -- an end to agricultural subsidies; -- inclusion of trade in services and investments in GATT regulations; -- tightening of restrictions on pirating of so-called intellectual property such as trademarks, patents and copyrights; -- new rules to resolve trade disputes among GATT's 92 member states. Earlier, New Zealand sources had said French Foreign Trade Minister Michel Noir had pulled out of the informal GATT talks for domestic political reasons. Cabinet chief Bernard Prauge will lead the French delegation. Reuter 
U.S. ECONOMIST CALLS BRAZIL DEBT REQUEST MODEST

Brazil's attempt to seek better terms for paying off its 109 billion dlr foreign debt is responsible and modest, a former chairman of President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers said. "I think that what Brazil is calling for -- limiting its debt payments to two and one half pct of GNP -- is a responsible request on their part," economist Martin Feldstein said at a weekend news conference. "It requires additional money on the part of the banks, but rather modest additional amounts." Feldstein is attending the annual meeting of the Trilateral Commission, a foreign policy group of more than 300 business and government leaders from North America, Europe and Japan. Feldstein, one of four members of a task force on Third World debt, said that Brazil's request would mean an additional credit of three billion to four billion dlrs from banks and international agencies. "Brazil's debt would increase in dollar terms but remain constant in real terms. The four billion dlr increase in Brazil's 100 billion dlr debt would represent no increase in the real inflation-adjusted size of its liability," he said. Feldstein said he believed current Third World debt problems were less serious than those faced by the international monetary system in 1983 and 1985. However, the European representative on the task force, Herve de Carmoy, chief executive international for Midland Bank PLC, disagreed. He called the present situation more difficult and, in a draft proposal included in the task force's report, suggested setting up an institution, possibly within the World Bank, with a fund that could deal with a future debt crisis. Commission discussions were closed to reporters but it was apparent from the news conference that task force members did not agree on all points in their report. One point of agreement, Feldstein said, was that debtor countries would need additional credit in the coming years if they are to enjoy satisfactory growth. Feldstein said the task force, which also included Koei Narusawa, economic adviser to the president of the Bank of Toyko, and Paul Krugman, professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, did not agree on how much credit would be needed. He said they also did not reach a consensus on how willing international banks, particularly those in Japan and Europe, would be to lend the money. The Trilateral Commission was set up in 1973 by David Rockefeller, former head of Chase Manhattan bank, and others to promote closer cooperation among the three regions. Reuter 
U.S., LATIN NATIONS DELAY DECISION ON IADB

The United States and major Latin American nations agreed to set aside sharp differences over control of the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) and reconsider the issue this summer. The bank's policy-making board of governors, meeting here ahead of this week's IADB annual meetings, put off any decisions when it became apparent differences between Washington and the Latin countries ware too great. IADB officials said Washington had indicated, however, it might be prepared to compromise in the future. The United States is the principal donor nation and has pressed the bank, controlled by the Latin American borrowing nations, to cede virtual veto power over loans to Washington. The Reagan administration wants to make the bank part of its controversial strategy to resolve the debt crisis. The U.S. Plan calls for loans from multilateral banks like the IADB to be tied to economic reforms in debtor nations which would promote open markets, reduced government intervention and inflation-free economic growth. Brazil, which declared an interest payments moratorium last month, is leading a challenge to Washington's strategy and officials here obviously feared any decisions that might deepen rifts between the United States and Third World nations. IADB officials also said Washington hinted at future compromise. "The U.S. Said it remains hopeful they can reach an agreement and expressed optimism that such a consensus could be reached," said an official who asked not to be named. Washington has threatened to scuttle a 20-25 billion dlr, four-year capital replenishment for the bank if the veto issue is not resolved. But it has asked Congress to give it authority to finance its one-third share in the event agreement on voting power is reached. The United States controls 34.5 pct of the vote and wants a loan veto to exist at the 35 pct level. Currently, a simple majority can approve or disapprove loans giving the borrowing nations control of the purse strings and resulting in loan conditions too lax for Washington's taste. The U.S. Strategy for dealing with the debt crisis is expected to be repeated by Treasury Secretary James Baker in a speech to the bank's annual meeting today (Monday). But monetary sources expect Baker to suggest the United States has some room for compromise and also to fend off other challenges to its strategy by signalling Washington is open to innovative solutions to the debt problem. Reuter 
BAKER EXPECTED TO DEFEND DEBT STRATEGY

Treasury Secretary James Baker, facing the toughest challenge to his Third World debt plan so far, is expected today to stoutly defend the strategy. At an opening address to the annual meeting of the Inter-American Development Bank here Baker is likely once again to bluntly reject alternative approaches like wholesale debt relief. The speech comes after Washington delayed its bid to wrest control of IADB lending from Latin nations. The Treasury Secretary is also expected, U.S. officials say, to portray that attempt as a crucial element in his plan to promote inflation-free economic growth, open markets, and a much-reduced government role in the economies of Latin America. "We have already seen substantial progress," Baker said in a Miami Herald article and argued the plan was never meant to be a "quick fix". But Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, Nicaragua and Bolivia have all ceased servicing some or all of their debt. Brazil's interest payments moratorium, announced last month, is being seen as a major challenge to the Baker plan. Owing foreigners 109 billion dlrs, Brazil called an indefinite interest payments moratorium on 68 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt. Brazilian Central Banker Francisco Gros met bankers last night to begin what U.S. officials predict will be months of extremely tough negotiations. The scale of the problem is immense. Owing some 382 billion dlrs of foreign debt, Latin nations have since the start of the decade paid out some 200 billion dlrs in interest and principal and received about 28 billion dlrs in new loans. In addition, upwards of 100 billion dlrs in capital flight is estimated to have left the region during that time. The Baker plan, unveiled in October, 1985, calls on commercial and multilateral banks to increase lending by about 29 billion dlrs in the three subsequent years to the 15 major debtors engaging in fundamental economic reform. The theory runs that once a debtor nation has reformed its economy, it can service its debt comfortably and without an atmosphere of crisis. U.S. officials emphasize some 8.5 billion dlrs has been paid out in the first 14 months of the plan, payments of over 70 billion dlrs of debt has been stretched out into the future and Washington is embracing new and innovative ideas to keep debtor-creditor negotiations afloat. Baker is expected to underscore these points in his address today. Reuter 
STUDY SAYS OIL PRICE FALL SPURS BANKRUPTCIES

The sharp drop in world oil prices the past year triggered a 60 pct increase in bankruptcies in the country's oil states, according to a study released by the American Petroleum Institute (API). API said the Dunn and Bradstreet study found that business failures rose nationally by 6.9 pct in 1986 over 1985, but in the "oil patch" of the Southwest the increase was 59.9 pct. It said bankruptcies in Texas were up 57.4 pct, Oklahoma, 55.9 pct, Colorado, 55.8 pct and Louisiana, 46.6 pct. In Alaska, failures rose by 66.2 per cent, it said. API also said that three of the states with the highest number of bank failures last year were large oil and gas producers - Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas. Reuter 
WORLD DEPENDENCY ON MIDEAST OIL SAID INEVITABLE

The world's dependency on the Mideast as the source for its petroleum is growing and nothing is going to stop it, Donald K. McIvor, an Exxon Corp <XON> Director and senior vice president told Reuters in an interview. "Non-OPEC production will begin to decline and the gap between demand and supply will widen so that the trend to increasing dependence on OPEC and the Middle East is inevitable," McIvor said. Decreased supplies will firm prices for crude oil but are not likely to change a growing dependence, McIvor said. McIvor, Exxon's senior vice president responsible for oil and gas exploration and production said that dependence would result from the Mideast's large spare capacity at a time when the rest of the world consumes more oil than it was finding. "Since 1970 we've been consuming oil at rates of 20-25 billion barrels per year while making new discoveries of only about 10-15 bilion barrels per year," McIvor said. "The bulk of the inventory and more than half of the remaining proved reserves lies in the middle east which is producing at much less than current capacity," he added. McIvor said that of the some 30,000 oil fields discovered so far only 37 "one-one thousandth of the total number contained about 35 pct of all the oil ever discovered." McIvor said, in response to a question, that he did not believe there were any more "super giants", or oil fields with reserves greater than five billion barrels, to be found which would change the conclusion of the world's growing dependency. "Of those 37 super giants only 11 lie outside the Middle East. Only five of the 37 have been discovered in the past 20 years and only two of these lie outside the middle east (Cantarell in Mexico and Alaska's North Slope)." McIvor said. McIvor said that many of the large fields outside the U.S. like Alaska's Prudhoe Bay and the North Sea were reaching a peak and would soon begin to decline. But the Exxon executive said that there were still plenty of opportunities to be explored and developed outside of the Middle east, particulartly in Canada, the North Sea, and Australia and Africa. McIvor said that decisions to explore and drill in those areas would be depedent upon both the expectations of a higher price of oil as well as the legal regime affecting the companies. "The ideal regime is a stable one not one where there is a constant change in policies," McIvor said. McIvor said he opposed import subsidies or tariffs used to increase exploration as these only benefit one part of the economy at the expense of other parts of the economy. Asked about the options offered this week by U.S. Energy Secretary Herrington to increase U.S. production McIvor said he could not comment on subjects like the oil depletion allowance now but "the thrust of his (Herrington) report is valid. It has highlighted the growing dependency on the Middle east and the need to increase U.S. production." McIvor also said that he expected natural gas to play a greater role in the future in meeting energy needs. "Natural gas will have the opportunity to become an increasingly important part of the worlkd's energy supply," McIvor said. "Crude oil will be used more and more as a transportation fuel and natural gas will be used more to generate heat, as an industrial fuel," he added. Reuter 
LIMITED PARTNERS SUE BOESKY

A group of limited partners has filed suit in U.S. District Court in New York against Ivan F. Boesky and others, alleging that Boesky deceived them into investing in his partnership Ivan F. Boesky and Co LP through the preparation of deceptive partnership documents. The suit also names as defendants <Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc>, investment banker for the partnership, law firm Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver and Jacobson and its attorney Stephen Fraidin, and financial services company Seligmann Harris and Co, as well as former Drexel investment bankers Dennis A. Levine and Martin A. Siegel. Levine and Siegel have already pleaded guilty to insider trading violations, as has Boesky. The suit alleges that partnership documents prepared by the law firm were misleading because they failed to disclose the criminal violations to which Boesky later pleaded guilty. Seligman helped recruit investors to the partnership, according to the suit. The suit said the papers failed to disclose Drexel's financial interests in the partnership. It also said Boesky failed to meet a pledge to invest at least 20 mln dlrs in the partnership. The suit seeks an unspecified amount of damages from the partnership and Boesky and damages from Fried, Frank and Fraidin. The plaintiffs include Home Group Inc <HME>, Lincoln National Corp <LNC>, a number of other institutional investors and recently-named Morgan Stanley Group Inc <MS> asset management unit senior advisor Lewis Lehrman. Reuter 
MARKET LOAN COULD BE PINNED TO U.S. TRADE BILL

Sen. David Pryor, D-Ark., said he was considering amending the Senate Finance Committee's trade bill with a provision to require a marketing loan for soybeans, corn and wheat. Pryor told the Futures Industry Association that there was great reluctance among members of the Senate Agriculture Committee to reopen the 1985 farm bill, and that a marketing loan might have a better chance in the Finance panel. The Arkansas senator said the marketing loan -- which in effect allows producers to pay back their crop loans at the world price -- had led to a 300 pct increase in U.S. cotton exports in 14 months and a 72 pct increase in rice exports. Pryor serves on both the Senate Finance and Agriculture Committees. Reuter 
THERMO INSTRUMENT <THIS> GETS SOVIET ORDER

Thermo Instrument Systems Inc said it has received a 550,000 dlr order from the Soviet Union for plasma spectrometers to be used by the Soviet Bureau of Standards to help Soviet industries develop quality control procedures in mining, agriculture and manufacturing. It said the instruments will detect the amount of metals in various products. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to add temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, economists said. They said that while the Fed has only a moderate add need over the next few days, it will probably intervene in an attempt to counteract an elevated federal funds rate. Fed funds, which averaged 6.09 pct on Friday, opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained at that level in early trading. Reuter 
CURRENCIES BETTER REFLECT FUNDAMENTALS - BAKER

Treasury Secertary James Baker said currencies were now within ranges that better reflected economic fundamentals. In a speech to the annual meeting of the Inter-American Development Bank, he said, "Excchange have moved into ranges that better reflect economic fundamentals." He noted that in particular that dollar has fallen from its high point in early 1985 helping to moderate protectionist pressures in the U.S. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS U.S. MAKING PROGRESS REFORMING IADB

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said he was making progress negotiating reform of the Inter-American Development Bank with other member nations. In a speech prepared for delivery to the annual meeting of the IADB, Baker said, "We are making progress in negotiating reforms." And he added that if succesful, Washington would be ready to put up an additional nine billion dlrs to the seventh IADB four-year capital replenishment, an increase of 75 pct. It was not immediately clear what the overall size of the capital replenishment would be if the U.S. went ahead with such a capital increase. But Baker's statement that he had made progress in negotiating reforms came after a weekend meeting of the bank's policy making board of governors at which the reform issue was put off until next June because of deep differences between Washington and Latin borrowing countries. Baker said the U.S. increase would account for 70 pct of the bank's useable financial resources. Currently Washington is only allowed to vote 34.5 pct in IADB board meetings considering loans to Latin American countries. But the Latin borrowing nations control 54 pct of the vote and frequently approve loans to which economic reform conditions are not tied. Baker pointed out that Western nations which provide 95 pct of the bank's financial resources represent just 46 pct of the vote. Baker said the U.S seeks a greater say in bank decisions for itself and other creditor countries. "In view of this imbalance we don't believe it is unreasonable to ask for a change," Baker said. He said the changes sought by the U.S. would require loan approval by a greater majority of shares than a simple majority. But he stopped short of reaffirming the original U.S. position that veto power should exist with a 35 pct vote. Enlarging on reforms Washington would like to see, Baker said he wanted the IADB to play a much greater role in the U.S. debt strategy for promoting inflation free economic growth, open markets and a reduced government role in the economies of debtor nations. Under reforms he said the U.S. wants the IADB to adopt a major program of lending to specific economic sectors in debtor countries on condition the countries carried out policy reforms in those areas of their economies. Such reforms would include, among other things, more concern for natural resource management. Baker said this lending should help debtors make a transition to more open economies and freer markets. He also said the bank could double its current lending volume from capital and triple its concessional loans to the poorest nations. The Treasury Secretary also called for the IADB to improve its analysis of the policies of debtor countries, strengthening its process for assessing the specific needs of debtor nations. He urged a wholesale reorganization of bank personnel. Baker said, "We simply believe that more discretion and policy influence should lie with the parties which contribute the lion's share of resources." He pointed out that despite tight budget problems the Reagan administration has asked Congress to finance the IADB and other multilateral development banks. Pointing out that such funding was difficult today in the best of circumstances, he said it would be impossible if Congress did not have confidence in bank lending policies. Reuter 
BAKER URGES BANKS TO MULL NEW LOAN PLANS

Treasury Secretary James Baker urged commercial banks to be open to new ideas for reducing the third world debt burden. "I believe the commercial banks need to be open to creative ideas for reducing the debt burden," Baker told the annual meeting of the Inter-American Development Bank. But he said that he was confident banks would make "substantial new lending" to the major debtors this year. He pointed out principal debtor nations are expected to grow an average 3.5 pct this year, the fastest real rate of growth since 1980. Saying the U.S. debt strategy was making "substantial headway", Baker said import volumes of debtor countries are forecast to jump over six pct in 1987 and export volumes almost five pct -- the best performance in three years. He also said economic growth has kept pace with or surpassed the growth in debt for nine of the 15 major debtors since 1983. "This is a start -- and I venture to say a good one," the Treasury Secretary said, and he urged the audience of Western and Latin finance officials and bankers to stand fast against suggestions of solutions like debt relief. While such ideas have political appeal, Baker said, they would mean a drying up of capital flowing to debtors. And even if free market reforms followed, debt fogiveness would frighten away investors who would not "risk their capital in a country which abandoned its obligations." And he said, "A debt forgiveness plan that damages commercial banks also weakens confidence in world financial stability." He cautioned that resolving the debt situation would be a "gradual and painstaking" process, varying from country to country. Reporting on the U.S. debt strategy, Baker said attitudes in debtor nations have changed and there is much greater acceptance of free market reforms than hitherto. Some countries like Argentina are pursuing anti-inflation programs. Others, like the Philippines and Chile, are privatizing companies and swapping debt for equity. The International Monetary Fund and World Bank, meanwhile, have committed nearly 12 billion dlrs in loans for the 15 major debtor nations since late 1985, official creditors have rescheduled 14.5 billion dlrs in outstanding loans through the Paris club, while commercial banks are making new loans. Baker pointed out the banks have rescheduld nearly 70 billion dlrs of debt, reaching agreements recently with Chile, Venezuela and Mexico. Elsewhere in his speech, Baker outlined the progress industrial nations are making in promoting moderate global growth, low inflation and efforts to reduce massive trade imbalances. He maintained world economic conditions were "continuuing to improve" a development that would provide a positive backdrop for debtor nations. Reuter 
ARGENTINA EXPECTS QUICK AGREEMENT WITH BANKS

Argentina expects to reach agreement with its commercial bank creditors in the near future on a new financing package including 2.15 billion dlrs in new loans, Treasury Secretary Mario Brodersohn said. Addressing Argentine businessman during the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) meeting here, he said the two sides will meet again next Thursday in New York. "We have made significant progress over the last 30 days and we should have an agreement in a shorter lapse of time than managed by Mexico, Venezuela or Chile," he said. Brodersohn reiterated that Argentina's goal is to reach an agreement which permits four pct growth this year, following last year's 5.5 pct and negative growth in 1985. He said discussions were still continuing on debt-capitalization plans and schemes for on-lending, in the light of certain Argentine concerns. The government is anxious that debt that is capitalized should represent new investment in the country on a dollar invested per dollar capitalized basis, rather than a simple transfer of ownership of the debt, he said. At the same time, it wants to avoid an expansionary monetary impact from on-lending schemes, whereby debt repayments are recycled by banks into new loans. Brodersohn said also agreement was close on the proposal for so-called exit bonds, whereby creditors can sell out their debt. Argentina's 1987 financing needs come to 3.53 billion dlrs, including the 2.15 billion from banks and a 1.38 billion dlr IMF loan already agreed. It is projecting a current account deficit of 2.2 billion dlrs after one of 2.4 billion last year. It estimates export earnings will have dropped by 7.1 billion dlrs between 1985-87 as a result of falling commodity prices. Argentina, owing 50 billion dlrs, is Latin America's fourth biggest debtor. Reuter 
BP <BP> UNIT TO BUILD GOLD EXTRACTION PLANT

Amselco Minerals Inc, a unit of British Petroleum Co PLC, said it approved construction of a new plant with Nerco Minerals Co to process carbon ore to recover microscopic gold reserves. The plant, to be located at the Alligator Ridge Mine near Ely, Nev., will process 1,000 tons a day of carbon-bearing ore to recover 70,000 ounces of gold over three years, it said. The plant will use a chemical process called leaching to extract the residual gold, which could not otherwise be economically recovered. Operation of the plant, to be jointly owned by Amselco and Nerco, is set to start in October. The Alligator Ridge Mine is jointly owned by Amselco and Nerco, a unit of Nerco Inc <NER>, which is 90.5 pct owned by Pacificorp <PPW>, a Portland, Ore., holding company. The mine has produced about 60,000 ounces of gold a year since 1981 using another leaching process, a BP spokesman said. The open pit oxide ore reserves of Alligator Ridge will be exhausted by August 1987, as expected, when the work force will be reduced to about 72 from 127, the company said. The employees remaining after that will operate the new plant, it said. Reuter 
ZENITH ELECTRONICS <ZE> TO BRING JOBS TO U.S.

Zenith Electronics Corp said ratification of a new union contract on Sunday will enable the company to bring some jobs back from Mexico to its color television manufacturing factory in Springfield, Mo. The company did not specify the number of jobs. It said a new contract ratified by members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers will reduce wages 8.1 pct in the first three years of the pact. Zenith said the contract, replacing an earlier one that was to expire in March 1988, assures it will keep 600 assembly jobs from going to Mexico. Reuter 
DOE MAKES ACID RAIN CLEANUP SOLICITATION

The Department of Energy said it is soliciting companies for innovative clean coal technologies as part of President Reagan's acid rain initiative. Energy Secretary John Herrington said the 850 mln dlr solicitation is tailored to attract industry proposals for advanced pollution control devices that can be installed on existing coal-fired power plants. Companies submitting the new technologies would need to at least match the federal funding share if their concept is selected, the DOE said. Herrington said he will appoint a senior panel to advise on the technologies. Reuter 
GROUP SAYS U.S. HOSTAGE ILL, OFFERS SWAP

Kidnappers of four professors, three American and one Indian, said U.S. Hostage Alann Steen was ill and offered to free him in exchange for a hundred detainees in Israel. "U.S. Spy Alann Steen began to suffer from illness, his health might deteriorate and he might die in 10 days," said a hand-written statement by Islamic Jihad for the Liberation of Palestine delivered to Beirut's independent An-Nahar newspaper. "Our humanitarian motives require that we free him for 100 detainees in the occupation jails," said the statement, which was accompanied by a photograph of Steen. REUTER 
ATKINSON'S <ATKN> CANADA UNIT GETS CONTRACT

Guy F. Atkinson Co of California said its Commonwealth Construction Co unit received a 110 mln dlr contract covering construction of a paper machine for St. Mary's Paper Inc of Ontario, Canada. The company said project startup is scheduled for April 1987 with completion expected in December 1988. Reuter 
U.S. FARM POLICY DEBATE COULD HIT SENATE SOON

The Senate this week might take up proposed legislation that could serve as a lightning rod to expose broad initiatives to change U.S. farm policy. The Senate could consider a House-passed bill that would allow wheat and feedgrains farmers to receive at least 92 pct of their income support payments if flooding last year prevented, or will prevent, them from planting their 1987 crops, Senate staff members told Reuters. Also pending is a bill extend the life of the National Commission on Dairy Policy. Sen. Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn., intends to offer an amendment to one of the bills that would suspend the minimum planting requirement for all 1987 wheat, feedgrain, cotton and rice producers, an aide said. Under current law, producers must plant at least 50 pct of their base acreage to be eligible for 92 pct of their deficiency payments. Most major U.S. farm groups have lobbied hard against making any fundamental changes in the 1985 farm bill out of fear a full-scale debate could expose agricultural problems to budget-cutting pressures. Representatives of these farm groups have said they also fear efforts by Midwestern Democrats to force a floor vote on a bill that would require large acreage set-asides in return for sharply higher support prices. However, Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, sponsor of the bill, told Reuters he did not intend to offer his measure as a floor amendment but to bring it through the committee. Reuter 
U.S. PREPARED TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS

The United States has offered Navy warships to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers into and out of the Gulf where they could be threatened by new Iranian anti-ship missiles, U.S. defense officials said today. "We believe the Kuwaitis have also approached the Soviet Union about the possibility of using Soviet tankers" to ship their oil, one of the officials told Reuters. "But if there is superpower protection, we would rather it come from us," the official said. The officials, who asked not to be identified, said Kuwait had asked about possible protection for a dozen vessels, most of them oil tankers, which could be supplied by three U.S. Navy guided missile destroyers and two guided missile frigates now in the southern part of the Gulf. "We told them we would give them help and we are waiting to hear the Kuwaiti response to our offer," one official said. In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navy's small Mideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon has moved 18 warships -- including the Aircraft Carrier Kitty Hawk -- into the northern Indian Ocean in the past month. White House and defense officials said today that massing of the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with the Iran-Iraq war or Iran's recent stationing of Chinese-made anti-ship missiles near the mouth of the Gulf. The land-based missiles have increased concern in Kuwait and other Middle East countries that their oil shipments might be affected. Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the Gulf by Iran and Iraq since early 1984. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters today that it was in the U.S. strategic interest to keep the free flow of oil in the gulf and through the Straits of Hormuz. But he said U.S. ships in the region were on routine maneuvers. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger on Sunday declined to discuss specifics, but said the United States would do whatever was necessary to keep the Gulf shipping open in the face of new Iranian anti-ship missiles in the region. "We are fully prepared to do what's necessary to keep the shipping going and keep the freedom of navigation available in that very vital waterway of the world," he said on NBC television's "Meet the Press." The State Department said Friday Iran has been informed about U.S. concern over the threat to oil shipments in the Gulf. The communciation was sent through Switzerland, which represents American interests in Iran. Iran on Sunday denied as baseless reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the gulf and warned the United States that any interference in the region would meet a strong response from Tehran, Tehran Radio said. An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, quoted in a broadcast monitored by the BBC in London, said reports that Iran intends to threaten shipping in the Gulf were baseless. "In conjunction with this misleading propaganda, America has already paved the ground to achieve its expansionist and hegemonistic intentions, aiming to build up its military presence in the region," he was quoted as saying. Reuter 
TIMBER REALIZATION <TRX> TO SELL REMAINING ACRES

Timber Realization Co said it has agreed to sell its remaining 50,000 acres of timberland property in Mississippi for about 11.3 mln dlrs in cash. Timber Realization, a limited partnership formed to dispose of timberlands and related properties transferred to it by the <Masonite Corp>, said that when this sale is completed the partnership will have received about 15.2 mln dlrs in cash and notes from the sale of its properties since December 23, 1986. The partnership said it will terminate before August 3, 1987. Prior to that date, the partnership said it expects to form a liquidating trust to provide for unresolved claims and liablities. Timber Realization said the amount retained in that trust will depend on its experience in resolving open items up to the termination date, but it added it expects to retain a substantial amount in the trust. The partnership said it anticipates making a cash distribution of an as yet undetermined amount to unitholders at or before the liquidation trust's funding date. Reuter 
EC COMMISSION SET TO DETAIL GRAIN IMPORT PLAN

The EC Commission will decide shortly precisely how to arrange the import of third country maize and sorghum into the EC in fulfilment of its agreement with the United States, Commission sources said. Under the accord, reached following U.S. complaints about the impact on its agricultural exports of Spanish EC membership, the EC will import two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum a year up to end of 1990. All this produce will be imported into Spain at special levy levels likely to be below those applying for imports into other EC countries. The sources said it was possible that the Spanish intervention board would be asked to buy the produce directly this year, as it was rather late to make other arrangements. They added that the choice for future years appears to lie between a system of regular tenders and the setting of a daily special levy applicable to Spanish imports. There will initially be no tax on re-exports of maize and sorghum from Spain to other EC countries, although such a tax could be imposed later, the sources added. Reuter 
SWISS BANKERS ANNOUNCE CURBS ON BANKING SECRECY

Swiss bankers announced a series of measures aimed at preventing abuses of the country's tight banking secrecy laws as part of a revision of a 10-year-old voluntary code of conduct. The measures follow renewed controversy over the limits of Swiss secrecy, prompted by recent allegations that both former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos and U.S. Officials linked with the arms-for-Iran scandal had accounts here. The Swiss Bankers Association said it wanted to curb the right of bank clients to hide their identity behind lawyers. The association said it would insist that banks identify anyone doing cash business at the counter worth more than 100,000 francs, down from a current 500,000. Banks would continue to be required to identify their clients in other cases and pledge not actively to help capital flight, or tax fraud. They would also still face fines of up to 10 mln francs in case of abuse. "The Bankers Association is convinced that this new agreement will give the banks an instrument which will guarantee banking secrecy and help the standing of Swiss banking both home and abroad," the statement said. The code, once approved by member banks, will go into force on October 1. The original dates from 1977. Controversy surrounding the alleged use and then freezing of bank accounts here linked with Marcos and with the U.S. Arms-for-Iran scandal have again directed attention on the revision of the code. The recent busting of a major international drug ring also gave fresh evidence Swiss banks had been used for "laundering" drug money. The Banking Commission, responsible for overseeing the banks, said at the end of last year it wanted a drastic reduction in clients' ability to hide behind lawyers and fiduciary agents, a proposal criticised by lawyers. Steering a middle way, the association said today that lawyers doing banking business on behalf of clients would in future have to pledge they were not doing so merely to preserve the clients' identity nor only for a short period of time. Until now, lawyers have only been obliged to sign a form pledging that their clients are not misusing their anonymity for illegal purposes. REUTER 
BANKERS HOPEFUL ON PHILIPPINE DEBT TALKS

The Philippines and its commercial bank advisory committee will resume talks tomorrow on what bankers hope will be the final leg of negotiations for a 9.4 billion dlr debt rescheduling package. Bankers, attending the Inter-American Development Bank annual meeting here, said the two sides are still working on a plan that embraces Manila's proposal to pay interest partly with Philippine investment notes (PIN) instead of cash. One senior banker said he hoped that final agreement would be reached this week but cautioned that a number of major issues are still outstanding. The senior banker said that the remaining issues include interest rates and the exact form of the investment notes plan. However, bankers did not anticipate any accounting problems for this novel interest payment method. Deputy U.S. Comptoller of the Currency Robert Bench said last week that U.S. bank regulators also had no objection in principle to the PINs concept because Manila has guaranteed their ready conversion into cash. Reuter 
ENERGY ANALYST PROPOSES U.S. OIL TARIFF

Energy analyst Edward Krapels said the United States should consider an oil tariff to keep U.S. dependence on imports below 50 pct. "On the supply side, the argument in favor of a contingent, variable import tariff is most persuasive," Krapels, president of Energy Security Analysis, Inc said in a statement at a House Energy and Power subcommittee hearing. "An optimal tariff would be one implemented only if the international price of crude oil falls below, say, 15 dlrs a barrel. On the demand side, the obvious policy is an excise tax on transportation fuels," Krapels said. But William Johnson of the Jofree Corp disagreed with the oil tariff proposal, saying Congress should remove price controls on natural gas, repeal the windfall profits tax on oil companies, allow exports of Alaskan oil and provide tax incentives for U.S. oil production, or, at the least, preserve exisiting tax incentives for drilling. He also urging filling the Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate. Richard Adkerson of Arthur Andersen and Co told the subcommittee oil imports were expected to increase because funds for exploration and development of domestic oil sources cannot now be economically justified due to low oil prices. Reuter 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - BRAZIL DEBT DEADLINES LOOM

Slow progress in talks between Brazil and its major foreign creditors has increased the likelihood that U.S. banks will declare their loans to Brazil non-performing at the end of the quarter, bankers said. Several banks, citing Brazil's suspension of interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of its 108 billion dlr foreign debt and the absence of a coherent economic plan, have already said they might take such a step, even though it would cost them tens of millions of dollars in profits. An inconclusive meeting here March 22 between central bank governor Francisco Gros and Brazil's bank advisory committee can only have stiffened that resolve. A nasty row is also looming over 16 billion dlrs of trade and money-market lines which Brazil froze last month. The legal commitment to maintain these credits runs out on March 31, and the worried talk at the Inter-American Development Bank annual meeting here is that some disgruntled bank will sue for repayment, raising the specter of a cascade of lawsuits and tit-for-tat asset seizures. "My gut feeling is that common sense will prevail. But is there a risk? Yes, the mood out there is pretty nasty," one New York banker commented. Two or three years ago, a showdown between the world's largest debtor and its largest creditors would have sent shock waves through the financial markets. But no longer. Some U.S. money-center bank stocks fell by about 10 pct in the immediate aftermath of Brazil's payments halt. But, in the Eurodeposit markets, which bankers consider to be the most sensitive gauge of confidence, there was no discernible flight out of bank instruments and into safer government bonds. In fact, the system has calmly withstood the suspension, in part or in full, of interest payments by countries owing about 150 billion dlrs of the region's total foreign debt of 380 billion. Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Honduras, Guatemala and Nicaragua had all curtailed payments before Brazil. The explanation for the fairly relaxed view is that net new bank lending to Latin America has dried up at the same time as banks have steadily bolstered their capital base. As a result, exposure relative to capital has fallen and few now fear for the collapse of a major bank. That is why, banking analysts have said, Citicorp <CCI> felt emboldened to state early in the day that it might put Brazil on a cash basis even before interest becomes 90 days overdue. It would forfeit 190 mln dlrs of profits this year as a result, but for a company which earned over a billion dlrs in 1986 the setback would be manageable. Some other banks are not as strong, however, and a protracted confrontation with Brazil could still seriously erode depositor and investor confidence, especially if other debtors are emboldened to follow suit and press for debt relief. Bankers are thus working hard to isolate Brazil. Financing agreements were reached recently with Chile and Venezuela, an accord with the Philippines seems to be close at hand, and a deal with Argentina on new loans and a debt restructuring could be reached in the next two weeks, bankers say. In taking a hard line against wholesale debt relief, the banks have the clear backing of the Reagan Administration. "All of us have a stake in the stability of the world banking system - a debt forgiveness plan that damages commercial banks also weakens confidence in world financial stability," U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker told the IADB meeting. Some European bankers, however, argue that capitalization of interest is already happening in practice and that the banks ought to face up to the fact and work with the debtors on longer-term solutions that recognize that not all the interest can be paid back right away. Rigid accounting rules have prevented U.S. banks from seriously considering adding interest to the principal of a loan because they would have to declare the loan non-performing. But, Brazilian central bank governor Gros said, if the banks are now volunteering to take that step, they might be more willing to discuss new ideas for debt relief. "It's not necessarily an unfavorable development," Gros said when asked about the prospect of Brazilian loans being put on a cash basis. "We find more room to discuss these things (innovations) with European banks which have already bitten the bullet." What is clear, however, is that banks are so angry and frustrated with Brazil that they are in no mood to offer quick concessions. A long war of attrition on the debt front lies ahead. Reuter 
COMMUNICATION PROBLEMS AFFECTING CBOE QUOTES

The Chicago Board Options Exchange, CBOE, said that due to telecommunications problems, last sale prices, market quotes and index values are updating intermittently. The exchange said the problem affected prices from 1456 CST (2056 GMT). Trading in options at the CBOE closes at 1515 CST (2115 GMT). Reuter 
1987 U.S. SOYBEAN LOAN SHOULD STAY SAME-AMSTUTZ

Congress should give the U.S. Agriculture Secretary the authority to keep the 1987 soybean loan rate at the current effective rate of 4.56 dlrs per bushel in order to help resolve the problem of soybean export competitiveness, USDA undersecretary Dan Amstutz said. Speaking to reporters following a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing, Amstutz suggested that one way out of the current soybean program "dilemma" would be for Congress to allow the loan rate to remain at 4.56 dlrs. He indicated if the loan rate were 4.56 dlrs, USDA could then consider ways to make U.S. soybeans more competitive such as using certificates to further buydown the loan rate. Under current law, the 1987 soybean loan rate cannot be less than 4.77 dlrs per bu. Amstutz' suggestion would be for Congress to change the farm bill to allow USDA to leave the soybean loan rate at 4.56 dlrs in crop year 1987 rather than increase it to 4.77 dlrs. The 1986 effective loan rate is 4.56 dlrs because of the 4.3 pct Gramm-Rudman budget cut. Amstutz stressed that a major factor in any decision on soybean program changes will be the budget costs. He told the hearing that the problem in soybeans is that the U.S. loan rate provides an "umbrella" to foreign production and causes competitive problems for U.S. soybeans. Asked about the American Soybean Association's request for some form of income support, Amstutz said "the competitive problem is the most severe." He said USDA is still studying the situation and "no resolution" has yet been found. Reuter 
U.S. WILLING TO TALK TO MOSCOW ON WHEAT PRICE

U.S. Agriculture undersecretary Dan Amstutz indicated the United States is willing talk with the Soviet Union about the competitiveness of U.S. wheat prices but would not discuss making U.S. wheat prices "cheap." "There sometimes is a difference between being competitive and being cheap," Amstutz told a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing. Amstutz said the difference of opinion between Moscow and Washington last summer on the level of the U.S. subsidy offered on wheat to the Soviet Union, was over whether the U.S. wheat price was competitive or cheap. "I think there is a (U.S.) willingness to explore this issue as it pertains to competitiveness," Amstutz said. However, Amstutz added that the United States would not be willing to discuss wheat prices with Moscow "if the issue is being cheap." Asked later by a reporter what he meant by the distinction between competitive and cheap, Amstutz would not elaborate. Amstutz said it is the U.S. judgment that the long-term grain agreement between the two countries calls for Moscow to buy at least four mln tonnes each of wheat and corn annually at "prices in effect in this country." Amstutz made the comments in response to a question from Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, about expanding the export enhancement program to include grain sales to the Soviet Union. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS LATINS BALK AT U.S. IADB COMPROMISE

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said leading Latin American nations have delayed accepting a U.S. compromise proposal on major reforms of the Inter-American Development Bank. In an interview with a small group of reporters, Baker said discussions on far-reaching reforms of the bank would resume around the fringes of the semiannual meeting of the International Monetary Fund in two weeks time. But Baker said his compromise proposal, which he would not disclose, was no longer on the table. "I made it clear that the proposal was not one that I expected to leave out there if we could not resolve it at this meeting," Baker said. The U.S. had pressed for virtual veto power over IADB loans which were made on terms Washington considers far too lax. In a bid to integrate the Bank into the U.S. debt strategy, Washington has suggested it would be ready to subscribe nine billion dlrs to a new four-year capital replenishment of the Bank. In return Latin nations would have to give up their 54 pct simple majority voting power over IADB lending. Baker said, "In my view, they have not rejected it out of hand at all and that it will be considered, should we choose to advance it at the April meeting." A U.S. contribution of that size would lead to an effective four-year lending program by the Bank of 22.9 billion dlrs. The actual capital increase would amount to 27 billion dlrs, but usable resources would be less because the callable capital of Latin debtors is theoretical and does not take place in practice, U.S. officials explained. In return Latin nations would have to give up their 54 pct simple majority voting power over IADB lending. Initially, the U.S. wanted 65 pct of votes to proceed with a loan, a position that would have given the U.S. a virtual veto since it holds almost 35 pct of the votes. But it seemed clear from Baker's remarks he was at one point ready to concede an increased voting power, such as 62.5 pct or 60 pct as the majority for approving loans, that would amount to a compromise between the original U.S. and Latin American positions. Baker said, "In my view, they have not rejected it out of hand at all and that it will be considered, should we choose to advance it at the April meeting." Baker made clear that since Mexico, Brazil, Venezuela and Argentina, representing the Latins, had declined to accept the plan today, the U.S. had reverted to its original position, but he added, "It's possible the proposal could be revived." U.S. officials, who asked not to be named, said they believed a decision was not forthcoming because several top Latin finance officials were absent from the IADB annual meetings here. And one official added that the key Latin officials would be present at the semi-annual meetings of the IMF and the World Bank. The Treasury Secretary warned that if the issue is left unresolved "we can't look towards a greater (capital) replenishment here." That would mean the U.S. would use another multilateral development bank, like the World Bank, as its principal vehicle for lending tied to fundamental economic reforms in debtor nations. The IADB has tended to make loans for projects rather than sectoral loans aimed at reforming Latin economies and hence has never fully participated in Baker's third world debt plan. Reuter 
VOLCKER ASSISTANT JOINS PEAT MARWICK

Steven Roberts, assistant to Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker, has joined the firm of Peat Marwick Mitchell and Co, the company said. Roberts, 42, will be in charge of the firm's institutional regulatory consulting capability, and will be based in Washington. REUTER 
HUGHES' U.S. RIG COUNT RISES TO 784

U.S. drilling activity rose last week with the number of working rotary rigs up by 23 to 784, against 1,063 working rigs one year ago, Hughes Tool Co. said. The improvement was the first increase this year in the weekly rig count, which had dropped steadily since early January when a total of 962 rotary rigs were working. Among individual states, Texas and Oklahoma reported the biggest gains in drilling last week with increases of 21 and 11, respectively. California and Louisiana were each up by three and Wyoming gained two additional working rigs. Hughes Tool said it counted a total of 692 rigs drilling on land, 74 rigs active offshore and 18 drilling in inland waters. In Canada, the rig count was up by two to 183, against 324 one year ago. Reuter 
AMSTUTZ SAYS FARM TRADE ACCORD POSSIBLE IN 1988

U.S. Agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said it is possible to reach a global agreement to scale-back agricultural supports in calendar 1988. Speaking to a Senate Agriculture Appropriations committee hearing, Amstutz said "I think we can reach agreement in calendar 1988." Amstutz said the U.S. places a high priority on the Uruguay round of global trade talks. His comments followed a statement by Secretary of State George Shultz last week urging agriculture be the highest priority item during the upcoming summit of western heads of state in Venice, Italy. Reuter 
CHICAGO FUTURES LEADER SAYS MARKETS CAN ADAPT

Foreign currency futures markets would not be harmed if the leading industrial countries agreed to restrict currency movements to within a narrow band, said Leo Melamed, chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's, CME, executive committee. "The target zone would not affect our market I think at all.... A 10 pct range in the Deutsche mark gives us a healthy market," Melamed told Reuters in an interview. "We were willing to live in the old Smithsonian era with a four pct shift," he said, referring to permitted currency fluctuations in the early 1970s. "One thing you can adjust is to make each contract a larger value." As chairman of the CME in 1969-71, Melamed was instrumental in the development of currency futures, which now are crucial to the Chicago exchange. Melamed said capital flows -- which he estimated can approach 200 billion dlrs a day -- would overwhelm efforts by governments to control currency fluctuations. "They can do it for a day, in terms of intervention, an hour, a week maybe, but not over a period of time. So it's unrealistic and it doesn't work and it's unnecessary." The CME's top policymaker also said a decision by the exchange to advance the quarterly settlement time of its stock index futures contract to the morning from the afternoon would help eliminate dramatic price gyrations in futures and equity markets on so-called "triple-witching" day. "We think that the settlement in the morning will have a salutary effect so that over a longer period of time I think this issue (triple witching) will go away because of the change in the structure as of next June," when the move is scheduled to go into effect, he said. Melamed said proposed changes in floor practices by traders of the popular Standard and Poor's 500 stock index future would address complaints of trading abuses and stimulate trading. Two weeks ago, the CME board of directors proposed barring brokers on the top step of the pit from trading for their own account. The board also proposed requiring brokers engaged in dual trading elsewhere in the pit to record personal trades to the nearest minute and curbing trading between broker groups. The changes "will in time have an extremely positive effect on the marketplace. That's going to prove very, very instrumental in increasing volume over time," he said, predicting the increase would come within a year. Melamed, also chairman of Dellsher Investment Co Inc, said the CME last week withdrew a proposal to put a 12-point limit on the S and P 500 index's daily price movement when the Commodity Futures Trading Commission told the exchange it could not be a temporary program. The CME also received "many negative comments, many more than we anticipated," Melamed conceded. Many futures commission merchants predicted sell orders would accelerate in the event the price approached the bottom limit. Reuter 
MULRONEY CALLS ON CONGRESS FOR ACID RAIN ACTION

Prime Minister Brian Mulroney called on Americans to pressure Congress in the fight against acid rain in what some observers said may represent a shift in Canada's lobbying strategy with the United States. Mulroney told delegates to a North American wildlife conference that he has not been pleased with the U.S. administration's lack of speed in acting on the question, which Canada sees, he said, "as a test of our relationship" with the U.S. Mulroney and President Reagan endorsed a report by specially appointed acid rain envoys last year. Last week, the White House asked Congress for 2.50 billion U.S. dlrs to fund the acid rain fight. Mulroney described the commitment as "significant," but noted it was a long time in coming. "We are geared up, tanked up and raring to go," Mulroney said. "But I must tell you we were not happy with the pace with which the U.S. administration moved to implement the president's acceptance of the envoy report." The prime minister urged his mostly American audience to help Canada take the fight to Congress, saying his government is determined to fight on more than one front. "The campaign does not involve either or choices between the administration on one hand and Capitol Hill on the other," he said. The Canadian Coalition on Acid Rain hailed Mulroney's call to take the battle to Congress. "It is clear that he has an understanding now that Congress must be emphasized as equally as the administration," said spokesman Michael Perley. Reuter 
TAIWAN COMPLAINS ABOUT SIZE OF RESERVES

Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves, swollen by strong trade surpluses to a record 53 billion U.S. Dlrs, are becoming a problem, government officials said. Official figures show the latest level compares with the previous record of 51 billion dlrs on March 4 and about 26 billion in late March 1986. Central bank Governor Chang Chi-cheng told reporters the increase in reserves was the result of heavy intervention by the bank on the local interbank market. It bought nearly two billion U.S. Dlrs between March 5 and 23, he said. Wang Chao-ming, vice chairman of the government's Council for Economic Planning and Development, told Reuters the rising reserves were "a big headache for Taiwan." He said the government expects heavier pressure from the U.S., Where protectionist bills are being proposed against nations such as Taiwan and Japan with large trade surpluses with the U.S. Wang said the government would launch new measures within the next two months to further reduce import tariffs and open the market wider to foreign products, especially those from the U.S. Wang said the measures aim at helping reduce Taiwan's trade surplus, which rose to 2.73 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first two months of 1987 from 2.02 billion a year earlier. Nearly 90 pct of the surplus was with the U.S. Vice Economic Minister Wang Chien-shien agreed with Wang's remarks and said efforts to avert U.S. Protectionism were running out of time. "We must do it quickly or face retaliation from Washington," he said. He said the measures would include removal of trade barriers on insurance and inland services for U.S. Companies. Chang Chi-cheng said the central bank could not stop buying U.S. Dollars because of heavy sales by local exporters who fear the strong local dollar will cause them exchange losses. He said the bank is studying revision of the foreign exchange rules in hope of further reducing currency controls, but declined to give details. The Taiwan dollar has risen about 15 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985. It opened at 34.38 to the U.S. Dollar today and is expected to rise further to 33 in June and to 32 by end-year, some foreign bankers said. REUTER 
GATT ROUND MAY STOP GROWING TRADE PROBLEMS - U.S.

A successful new GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) round is needed to halt growing bilateral trade problems between major trading partners, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. Yeutter, in New Zealand for informal GATT ministerial talks, told Reuters bilateral trade disputes are increasing because the multilateral system is inefficient. "That is really a strong rationale why we need a new GATT round," he said. "The very existence of all these bilateral irritants clearly emphasises the need to develop multilateral solutions to some of these problems." The eighth GATT round of negotiations was launched at Punta del Este in Uruguay in September 1986. Agriculture and services were included in the negotiations for the first time. The growing debt burden of Latin American and African nations will also provide impetus for the GATT round to succeed, he said. "Clearly those countries need to develop their export endeavours and they need open markets for that to happen and that's the basic objective of the new GATT round," he said. But he said the GATT round is a long term endeavour. It will not give any short term relief for debt ridden countries, but it will make a difference in 10 to 15 years. "It's a worthwhile activity from their standpoint because these debts are not going to go away in the next year or two," he said. "They ought to be very strongly supported in the GATT round as a mechanism for relieving their debt burdens or making possible debt amortisation in the future," he said. REUTER 
YEUTTER SEES GATT CONSENSUS ON FARM TRADE REFORM

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said trade ministers meeting here have reached a general consensus on agricultural trade reform under the latest Uruguay round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Yeutter gave no precise details of the understanding but told journalists the consensus covers the principles involved in agricultural trade reform and what needs to be done to improve the global situation in agriculture. Delegates from 22 countries are meeting informally to discuss progress made since the latest GATT round was launched in Punta del Este, Uruguay, last September. Yeutter said "at least people seem to be going down the same road...But how that translates ultimately into negotiations is another matter entirely." There seems to be an understanding of the need to deal with the problem quickly and "a more common understanding of how we are going to get from here to there," Yeutter said. However, the hard work is still to come, with a couple of years of tough negotiations ahead, he said. "It is ludicrous for the nations of the world to plough immense amounts of financial resources into the production of items that nobody wants to buy," he said. He said the long-term answer is to switch some of the financial resources now committed to agriculture to other more productive areas. This would help agriculture because some its inefficient non-productive segments would stop operating, he said. Individual segments in many countries may lose in the process, but it should result in a more rational system of world-wide production within 10 or 15 years, he said. It is important that the agriculture negotiations reach a relatively early conclusion because the U.S. Is spending 26 billion dlrs a year and the European Community probably more than that, which is an ineffective use of financial resources, he said. Asked about the prospect of a priority for agriculture in the negotiations, he said "one has to be politically realistic... If there is any chance of getting it (agricultural trade reform) done in two to three years it's going to have to be as part of a larger package." REUTER 
U.S. OFFERS TO ESCORT KUWAITI TANKERS IN GULF

The U.S. Has offered warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers in the Gulf past Iranian anti-ship missile batteries, Defence Department officials said. The officials told Reuters yesterday the offer was made last week by Navy Admiral William Crowe, chairman of the Pentagon Joint Chiefs of Staff, during a Middle East visit. Reagan administration officials said later that Washington did not seek military confrontation with Tehran, but would not let Iran use Chinese-made "Silkworm" anti-ship missiles, capable of covering the narrow entrance to the Gulf, to choke oil shipments to the West. Defence officials said Kuwait had asked if protection for up to a dozen vessels, most of them tankers, could be provided by three U.S. Navy destroyers and two frigates now in the southern Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. In addition to a half dozen ships in the U.S. Navy's small Mideast Task Force near the Straits of Hormuz, the Pentagon has moved 18 warships, including the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk, into the northern Arabian Sea in the past month. White House and defence officials said that massing the fleet was routine and had nothing to do with the Iran-Iraq war or Iran's stationing of missiles near the mouth of the Gulf. The State Department said on Friday that Iran has been told about U.S. Concern over the threat to oil shipments in the Gulf. The communication was sent through Switzerland, which represents U.S. Interests in Iran. Iran denied as baseless reports that it intended to threaten shipping in the Gulf and said any U.S. Interference in the region would meet a strong response, Tehran Radio said on Sunday. Several hundred vessels have been confirmed hit in the Gulf by Iran and Iraq since early 1984 in the so-called tanker war, an offshoot of their 6-1/2-year-old ground conflict. REUTER 
IRAN SAID TO TEST FIRE SILKWORM MISSILE IN HORMUZ

Iran has test-fired its newly acquired Silkworm anti-shipping missile in the Strait of Hormuz and has set up at least two land-based launching sites in the area, a British naval source in the Gulf said. The source, who declined to be identified, said Iran had fired the Chinese-made missile at a hulk off its southern Gulf naval port of Bandar Abbas and scored a hit. "These missiles pack a fairly big punch," he told Reuters. "There is no doubt they could be used to target (shipping) across the Strait of Hormuz." Tension in the Gulf has risen since U.S. Officials last week broke the news that Iran had acquired the Silkworm missiles. The U.S. Has said it will not allow Iran to use the missiles to choke off oil shipments and has offered its warships to escort Kuwaiti tankers past the missile batteries. But Tehran denied last Sunday it intended to threaten Gulf shipping and warned the U.S. Any interference in the region would meet a strong response. The British naval source said the Silkworms were in place at at least two sites around the Strait of Hormuz, but would not give the exact location. REUTER 
TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS

Taiwan said it plans another round of tariff cuts, possibly within a month, to try to narrow its trade surplus with the U.S. Vice Finance Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economic committee recommended tariff cuts on 66 products requested by Washington, including apples, chocolates and fruit juice. Ho said the cuts may come into effect by the end of next month. Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in the first two months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billion dlrs in the same period last year. REUTER 
DISNEY <DIS> FRENCH DISNEYLAND DEAL DEFINITIVE

Walt Disney Co said it has signed a definitive agreement with the French government to build and operate Euro Disneyland on 5,000 acres at Marne-la-Vallee, a new town 20 miles east of Paris. The company said construction is scheduled to start next year and the theme park portion of the development -- which will also include a resort and recreation complex -- will take about four years to build. The theme park is expected to attract at least 10 mln visitors a year, Disney said. The company said Euro Disneyland will offer a Magic Kingdom theme park like those at its Anaheim, Calif., Orlando, Fla., and Tokyo complexes and peripheral resort and recreation facilities similar to those at Walt Disney World in Orlando. Disney said it will seek other equity investors in Euro Disneyland from France and elsewhere in the world. It said provisions for a second theme park on the property are included in the understanding with the French government, which is selling Disney the land. In Orlando, Disney also operates EPCOT Center. The company said long-term plans include convention facilities, a business park, an office complex and other related tourist developments. Disney said the French government will extend the Paris Metro subway system to the park and build interchanges and raods to provide superhighway access. It said it will receive royalties based on gross revenues from admissions, food and merchandise and will receive a fee to operate Magic Kingdom and other resort elements under a management contract. Disney said Eruo Disneyland will operate year-round. Reuter 
TAIWAN PROPOSES FURTHER TARIFF CUTS

Taiwan said it plans another round of tariff cuts, possibly within a month, to try to narrow its trade surplus with the U.S. Vice Finance Minister Ronald Ho said a high-level economic committee recommended tariff cuts on 66 products requested by Washington, including apples, chocolates and fruit juice. Ho said the cuts may come into effect by the end of next month. Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S. Widened in the first two months of this year to 2.35 billion dlrs from 1.87 billion dlrs in the same period last year. REUTER 
CREDIT SUISSE FREEZES ACCOUNTS IN INSIDER PROBE

Credit Suisse <CRSZ.Z> has been ordered to freeze accounts thought to have been involved in a U.S. Insider trading scandal, a Justice Ministry spokesman said. Joerg Kistler said the accounts belonged to two individuals and three companies, including Nahum Vaskevitch, former head of the London office of Merrill Lynch and Co <MER.N>. The accounts were blocked under a treaty on legal assistance between the United States and Switzerland aimed at facilitating criminal investigations which might otherwise remain hidden because of Swiss banking secrecy. The order prohibits transactions on the accounts for an initial period of 30 days, after an emergency request from the United States arrived last Friday. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which supervises stock market trading, alleged this month that Vaskevitch and an Israeli associate, Daniel Sofer, were behind an insider trading ring which netted profits of four mln dlrs. The order freezes accounts owned by Vaskevitch and Sofer as well as those of the companies <Plenmeer Ltd> and <Meda Establishment>, Kistler said. He declined to name the third company, since it was not clear what role it played. A spokesman for the bank said he was aware of the order. "Now we have to find out what is on the accounts," he said. He declined to give further details. The SEC alleged in a New York court last week that Sofer transferred 1.9 million dollars from a U.S. Bank account of the company Plenmeer to an account at Credit Suisse. REUTER 
STORM BRINGS HEAVY SNOWS TO U.S. PLAINS

The National Weather Service said a powerful winter storm centered over north central Oklahoma was spreading snow from western and central Kansas across much of Nebraska to southern and eastern South Dakota. Rain was reported across parts of Minnesota, Iowa, eastern Kansas, Missouri and eastern Oklahoma, with showers and a few thundershowers extending from Arkansas through the lower Mississippi Valley to Alabama and northwest Florida. Strong winds of 20 to 35 mph with some stronger gusts were reported across much of the Plains, causing considerable blowingand drifting snow. A blizzard warning continued this morning across most of western Kansas. A winter storm warning was issued this morning over central and northeast Nebraska. Weather advisories were posted for this morning over central Kansas and central and southeast sections of South Dakota where two to five inches of snow could accumulate. Locally heavy rains accompanied the storm over portions of the central Plains. Flash flood watches were issued for this morning across the eastern half of Kansas. A flood warning continues today for eastern Nebraska. Widespread lowland and small stream flooding is expected to continue over most of eastern Nebraska through Wednesday. Due to cold, damp and windy conditions, livestock advisories were posted this morning across central and southeast portions of South Dakota. As the storm moves north across the central Plains, winter storm watches were issued over south central South Dakota, late tonight and Wednesday over west central Minnesota. Elsewhere, a travelers advisory remains in effect this morning over northeast New Mexico and the Oklahoma and Tecas Panhandle for blowing snow and slick roadways and across the mountains and deserts of southern California for strong gusty winds of 25 to 40 mph. Gale warnings were issued for today along the central California Coast. Mostly clear skies extended from the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley through the central Appalachians to the central Atlantic Coast and New England. Reuter 
U.S. FEB DURABLE GOODS ROSE 6.0 PCT

New orders for durable goods received by U.S. manufacturers rose 5.7 billion dlrs, or 6.0 pct, in February to 101.2 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said. Excluding defense, orders rose 3.8 pct, compared with a revised January decline of 7.7 pct. In January, durable goods fell a revised 9.9 pct instead of the previously reported 7.5 pct. Durables excluding defense were reported originally as having fallen 9.9 pct in January. The Commerce Department on Monday revised orders statistics for 1982 to 1986 to reflect more current inventory valuation methods, and the February orders statistics are consistent with the revisions, officials said. The February order increase was led by transportation equipment, up 11.1 pct after an 18.0 pct decline in January. Orders for defense capital goods rose 48.9 pct to 6.9 billion dlrs, following a 38.8 pct decline in January. Non-defense capital goods orders fell 1.6 pct in February to 26.3 billion dlrs after falling 8.7 pct in January, the department said. Electrical machinery orders rose in February by 8.2 pct to 17.2 billion dlrs after falling 15.4 pct in January. Primary metals orders were up 13.9 pct to 8.4 billion dlrs after a 20 pct decline in January, the department said. New orders for non-electrical machinery were up in February by 3.9 pct to 16.6 billion dlrs after a three pct orders decline in January. Reuter 
GATT ROUND MAY STOP GROWING TRADE PROBLEMS: U.S.

A successful new GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) round is needed to halt growing bilateral trade problems between major trading partners, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. Yeutter, in New Zealand for informal GATT ministerial talks, told Reuters bilateral trade disputes are increasing because the multilateral system is inefficient. "That is really a strong rationale why we need a new GATT round," he said. "The very existence of all these bilateral irritants clearly emphasises the need to develop multilateral solutions to some of these problems." The eighth GATT round of negotiations was launched at Punta del Este in Uruguay in September 1986. Agriculture and services were included in the negotiations for the first time. The growing debt burden of Latin American and African nations will also provide impetus for the GATT round to succeed, he said. "Clearly those countries need to develop their export endeavours and they need open markets for that to happen and that's the basic objective of the new GATT round." But he said the GATT round is a long term endeavour. It will not give any short term relief for debt ridden countries, but it will make a difference in 10 to 15 years. "It's a worthwhile activity from their standpoint because these debts are not going to go away in the next year or two," he said. "They ought to be very strongly supported in the GATT round as a mechanism for relieving their debt burdens or making possible debt amortisation in the future," he said. Reuter 
HONDURAS SEEKS PL480 VESSELS FOR TALLOW DELIVERY

Honduras will tender March 26 under PL480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 1,500 tonnes of tallow in bulk, an agent for the country said. The agent said delivery includes laydays of April 5-15. Offers are due by 1200 hrs EST, March 26, and will remain valid until the close of business the following day, the agent said. Reuter 
U.S. ECONOMY SHOWS PROMISING SIGNS OF GROWTH

The U.S. economy is showing some promising signs of accelerated expansion despite the sluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, private economists say. Some of the slowness experienced in the October-December period had been expected to spill over into the first quarter this year, as the tax law changes that went into effect in January slowed business and consumer spending. But some of the latest economic data show signs of surprising strength in the U.S. economy, although some economists remain cautious about the outlook. The Commerce Department reported today that new orders for durable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pct rise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defense goods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agency said. The February numbers surpassed the expectations of many financial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat to increases of up to five pct. The January/February employment statistics suggest the Gross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth for the first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, an economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association. The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct, the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farm jobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain in January and a 225,000 December increase, the government said. The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate of about three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley. Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuilding their inventories and is not likely to be sustained in the second quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in the second quarter with smaller increases in personal consumption and government spending. He also sees residential construction declining mostly for multi-family housing units. Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of the fourth quarter slowness will continue. Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in the first quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter and show a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter. The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in the U.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline in the dollar's value over the last year and half. "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levy predicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but at least one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as the prices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas. The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit, which soared to record levels last year, will improve this year and the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for the year compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year. As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S. has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate their domestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others. U.S. officials believe that would help take some of the pressure off the United States whose five years of economic growth has been the mainstay of developing countries. The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market for their goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed to service their foreign debt. The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at a modest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter. There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalance between the volume of goods imported to the United States and those shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume of exports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the fact that in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsened during the closing three months of 1986. While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporate profits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, the government said. It also reported that inflation, as measured by the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing a moderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years. The government also reported that consumer spending, a key element of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct in February, after falling two pct in January. The Federal Reserve Board also reported that the manufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elements of the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery. In its latest report on current economic conditions, the Fed said that economic activity in the various regions of the country ranged from uneven or steady to improving. Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in most regions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish. Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said the pick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to the drop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a major pick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economy will slip into recession either. He said higher prices on imported products and wage cuts that have helped the manufacturing sector will squeeze consumers purchasing power. "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number of years," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering around a modest two pct level for the next few years. Reuter 
RICE, CORN LEAD 1987 U.S. FARM PAYMENTS - USDA

Rice and corn farmers will receive the largest payments from the U.S. government during 1987 if the subsidies are calculated per planted acre, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. USDA said government outlays to rice farmers in 1987 are expected to reach 403 dlrs per acre planted, followed by corn at 135 dlrs per planted acre. Government outlays include mainly deficiency payments and price support loans. On a per acre basis, cotton payments will reach 73.24 dlrs in 1987, wheat 60.30 dlrs, sorghum 54.38 dlrs, barley 27.41 dlrs and oats 2.31 dlrs, USDA said. USDA estimates farm subsidies will reach 25.3 billion dlrs in 1987. The figures were given by USDA officials at a Senate Agriculture Appropriations hearing yesterday. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY OPTIMISTIC ON INCENTIVES

U.S. Department of Energy Secretary John Herrington said he was "optimistic" about the chances of providing a more generous depletion allowance for oil and gas producers, but added that the plan faces strong opposition from some members of the Reagan administration. Herrington, speaking to Houston oil executives at a breakfast meeting, said administration debate over his plan for a 27.5 pct annual depletion allowance was "heavy and strong" largely because of some fears that the U.S. oil industry could eventually become as dependent on federal subsidies as the agriculture industry. Herrington's proposed tax incentives for the oil industry were issued last week after the Department of Energy released a comprehensive report finding U.S. national security could be jeopardized by rising oil imports. In response to a question from Mitchell Energy and Development Corp <MND> chairman, George Mitchell, Herrington said the report did not definitively rule out an oil import tarrif. "We intend to keep that debate open," Herrington said. However, following his speech, Herrington told Reuters that the new report shows an oil import fee "is not economical." Herrington said, for example, a 10 dlr per barrel tariff on oil imports would cause the nation's gross national product to drop by as much as 32 billion dlrs. Herrington also said he believed President Reagan, who requested the comprehensive national security study, was committed to some action to help the ailing U.S. oil industry. "I'm quite confident he understands the problems and is prepared to do something about it," Herrington said. Reuter 



NORTHERN TELECOM <NT> IN PACT WITH U.S. FIRM

Northern Telecom Ltd said it signed a two-year supply agreement with U S West Materiel Resources Inc that could lead to up to 300 mln U.S. dlrs of business. It said the agreement provided terms under which it can supply its DMS digital switching systems and related equipment to U S West's three information distribution companies consisting of Mountain Bell, Pacific Northwest Bell and Northwestern Bell. Reuter 
U.S. COURT ALLOWS OFFSHORE ALASKAN EXPLORATION

A unanimous Supreme Court ruled that oil and gas exploration can proceed on two tracts off the Alaska coast which were leased by the federal government to eight major oil companies. The ruling was an important victory for the oil companies and the Reagan administration's controversial off-shore leasing program and a setback for two small Alaskan villages that challenged the leases by claiming damage to the environment. The administration said that the court-ordered halt in drilling had created uncertainty over the 4.2 billion dlrs paid for 621 leases off the shores of Alaska since December 1980. A federal appeals court ordered the oil companies to halt all exploration and remove all drilling rigs from two tracts in the Bering Sea off Alaska because of possible harm to the subsistence needs and culture of native Eskimos. But the Supreme Court said the appeals court was wrong in issuing an injunction halting exploration. "Here, injury to subsistence resources from exploration was not at all probable," Justice Byron White wrote for the court. "And on the other side of the balance of harms was the fact that the oil companies had committed approximately 70 mln dlrs to exploration to be conducted during the summer of 1985 which they would have lost without chance of recovery had exploration been enjoined," he said. The oil companies, Amoco Corp <AN>, ARCO, Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB>, Sohio, Shell, Texaco Inc <TX> and Union Oil, had said that voiding previously granted leases would result in staggering financial losses. The first lease sale in 1983 involved 2.4 mln acres and generated 318 mln dlrs while the second lease sale in 1984 covered 37 mln acres and produced 516 mln dlrs. Administration officials, saying the lease sales were preceded by an intense environmental impact study, denied that the oil and gas exploration would hurt subsistence resources. The Alaskan villages of Gambell and Stebbins, along with an organization of Eskimo natives on the Yukon Delta, argued that the drilling would hurt native hunting and fishing. Reuter 
MIDAM SETS TRADING AT NEW CBT LOCATION MARCH 30

The Midamerica Commodity Exchange, an affiliate of the Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, that offers smaller versions of several futures contracts traded on other exchanges, will begin trading in its new quarters within the CBT complex on March 30, the CBT announced. Concurrent with the move from its current site a few blocks away, the trading hours of the Midam's Treasury bond futures contract will expand to between 0720 and 1515 local time from 0800 to 1415 currently. The Midam's T-bond contract has a face value half the size of the CBT's 100,000 dlr T-bond contract, the most active futures contract traded. The Midam also offers smaller-sized futures and options on currencies, precious metals, grains and livestock. Reuter 
OIL TAX BREAK RIDICULED BY U.S. HOUSE TAXWRITER

A House taxwriter said Energy Secretary James Herrington's "outrageous" plan to restore an old tax break for oil companies was both bad tax and energy policy. Rep. Pete Stark, a California Democrat and senior House Ways and Means Committee member, said Herrington's plan for a 27.5 pct depletion allowance--which in effect is a special 27.5 pct tax deduction --would cost seven billion dlrs a year. "He must have missed the last two years of federal tax reform by sleeping as soundly as Rip Van Winkle," Stark said. He said in a statement the oil industry already pays an effective lower rate of U.S. tax on investment, 15 pct versus aggregate corporate tax on all investment of 34 pct, according to a recent Congressional Research Service study. Reuter 
BANCA CATTOLICA IN 100 MLN DLR CD ISSUE

Banca Cattolica del Veneto SpA said it had signed an accord with Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co of New York covering a 100 mln dlr certificates of deposit issue in London. Maturities on the certificates will be between seven and 365 days. The bank said the issue would be placed with international institutional and private investors. REUTER 
FED GOVERNOR SUPPORTS COMMODITY PRICE GUIDE

Robert Heller, a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, said commodity prices could form a useful guide for setting domestic and international monetary policy. Speaking to the conservative Heritage Foundation, Heller said, "A broadly based commodity price index may be worth exploring" as a guide to monetary policy. "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, monetary policy might be eased," he said. Commodities are also standardized to avoid measurement problems and occur at the beginning of production so as to give "early warning" signs of wholesale and retail changes. "There is no need to react to every small fluctuation in commodity prices or to do so on a daily basis," Heller said in a prepared text. "But if commodity prices exhibit a broad trend, a policy action might be considered," he said. Heller said using a broad-based commodity price index as an indicator for monetary policy would also contribute to stabilized currency exchange rates. Commodity prices are generally uniform worldwide and prices for them are more consistent than for other types of goods, he said. He said other beneficial effects would be to stabilize export commodity prices for developing countries by using a commodity basket as a guidepost for monetary policy. Reuter 
NV PHILIPS SHARES MOVE FROM NASDAQ TO NYSE

Dutch electronics group N.V. Philips Gloeilampenfabrieken <PGLO.AS> said it will move its New York share listing, currently over the counter in the Nasdaq system, to the New York Stock Exchange. Philips, listed on 17 European exchanges, said the move is part of an effort to boost its profile in the U.S., Where 10 pct of all outstanding shares are held. The NASDAQ listing will end with the start of the NYSE listing, a spokesman said. The NYSE told Philips it met conditions for a big board listing, Philips said, adding it expects the change to be effected in April, using the symbol PHG. Reuter 
ALCAN UPS ALUMINIUM INGOT AND BILLET PRICES

Alcan Aluminium Ltd. in Montreal said it increased yesterday its prices for unalloyed ingot and extrusion billet by two cents a lb, effective with shipments beginning May 1. The new price for unalloyed ingot is 64.5 cents a lb while the new price for extrusion billet is 72.5 cents a lb. "We feel very confident about raising our prices because we see demand over supply as being sustainable for some time," said Ian Rugeroni, Alcan's president of metal sales and recycling - U.S.A. Rugeroni said sheet and can bookings for Alcan aluminium were up at a time when the company's total 1.1 mln tonne North American smelter system had less than a week's supply. "We're short and we're buying," he said. Rugeroni added that Alcan expects the International Primary Aluminum Institute to report a drop in total non-Socialist stocks in February and March. He estimated supply in the latter month will have fallen 100,000 to 150,000 tonnes, based in part on current low inventories of aluminium in Japan and on the London Metal Exchange. reuter 
DRAWDOWN SEEN IN U.S. DISTILLATE STOCKS

Tonight's American Petroleum Institute oil inventory report is expected to show another drawdown in distillate stocks of between two and 7.5 mln barrels for the week ending March 20, oil analysts and traders said. They said they expect gasoline inventories to be depleted by about one to four mln barrels. Analysts were divided on the crude stocks. Some saw stocks unchanged to as much as three mln barrels higher. Others said stocks could be down one to five mln barrels. Crude throughput volumes are expected to be unchanged to slightly higher or lower than the week ended March 13, traders said. The API recorded a 7.4 mln barrel stockdraw for U.S. distillates in the week ended March 13. Analysts see another draw reflecting historic seasonal trends. For the week ended March 13, API reported gasoline stocks down 2.9 mln barrels. Those expecting a draw of as much as four mln barrels said they are looking for fairly high consumption rates as the spring and summer driving season gets underway this year, because retail prices are still low compared to recent years. U.S. crude oil stocks were reported down by 4.4 mln barrels for the week ended March 13. Analysts are divided over the outcome for last week because there is uncertainty about whether throughput levels increased or decreased last week. Some see crude stock levels unchanged to three mln barrels higher, while others think inventories could be as much as five mln barrels below the previous week. The lower estimates are supported by the belief that crude runs increased and imports fell. The API reported crude runs 154,000 b/d higher for the week ended March 13. Analysts are calling it unchanged to slightly up or down for the week ended March 20. Expectations for product stockdraws are already being reflected in firmer prices, traders said. But if draws are at the higher end of the estimated range, they added, the effect will be bullish. Any stockbuild would be a negative factor, they said. Crude runs normally increase in March, and any decrease in runs would be friendly to the market, said Peter Beutel of Elders Energy Futures Inc. Reuter 
U.S. EX-IM BANK TO CHANGE LENDING POLICIES

The president of the Export-Import Bank said the Bank was changing its lending policies to reflect changing conditions in export financing. President John Bohn told a House Appropriations subcommittee hearing commercial banks have largely withdrawn from financing exports and export projects were becoming smaller. "Exporters now need financing in riskier markets and on deals which are smaller, take longer to put together and close," Bohn said in his testimony. "Lenders, however, want less risk, higher profit, transaction-oriented and less labor-intensive activities. "It became clear to us the EXimbank must assume a broader range of explicitly defined country and transaction risks than it has previously. Programs and procedures need to be simplified, streamlined and internally consistent," he said. Bohn said the Bank would focus on the needs of the middle market product or service exporter and would have essentially one loan program and one guarantee program for both medium-term and long-term export transactions. "Both programs will provide up to 85 pct financing, the maximum permitted under the OECD consensus. Eximbank loans will carry the minimum interest rate allowed by the OECD rate schedule for the market and the term," he said. Bohn said the Bank was requesting a limitation of 1 billion dlrs for regular loan obligations, of which up to 200 mln dlrs may be available as tied aid credits, and a limitation of 10 billion dlrs for guarantee and insurance commitments. He said the Bank would have to come back to Congress later this year to discuss its capitalization needs. Reuter 
NASD PRESIDENT LEAVES FOR HAMBRECHT AND QUIST

<Hambrecht and Quist Group> said Gordon Macklin has resigned as president of the <National Association of Securities Dealers> to become chairman and co-chief executive officer of Hambrecht and Quist. The San Francisco brokerage firm said Macklin is expected to join it by July. As chairman, he succeeds Hugh T. Wyles. The other chief executive officer is founder William R. Hambrecht. In Washington, the NASD said MAcklin has offered to stay on until a new president is named. It said it will soon appoint a committee to begin the search for a successor. Reuter 
GOODYEAR <GT> UNIT TO START UP PIPELINE

Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co said the All American Pipeline of its Celeron Corp subsidiary will start line fill activities on March 30 as it begins operating. The company said about five mln barrels of oil will be required to pack the completed segment of the line, which runs 1,225 miles from near Santa Barbara, Calif., to existing pipeline connections in West Texas. Construction has also staqrted this week on a 43-mile, 16-inch diameter gathering line to deliver 75,000 to 100,000 barrels a day of oil from the San Joaquin Valley in California. The 30-inch main underground line can transport over 300,000 barrels daily. Reuter 
HEAVY SIGNUP SEEN IN 1987 CORN PROGRAM - USDA

With less than a week remaining to enroll in the 1987 feedgrains program, Agriculture Department officials said that final signup will probably exceed last year's level of 85 pct. Enrollment in USDA's basic acreage reduction program will likely total close to 90 pct, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, ASCS, officials said, with 50 to 70 pct of the enrolling farmers also expected to sign up for the paid land diversion program. The signup period of the 1987 feedgrains program officially ends at the close of the business day on March 30. USDA will release its official signup report around April 15, an official said. USDA personnel in the corn belt states of Iowa, Illinois, and Indiana have been reporting heavy signup activity, an ASCS official told Reuters. A surge of acitivity is expected during this final week of signup, the official said. "A lot of farmers have been dragging their feet because they were anticipating some changes in the program, but that doesn't look very likely now," he said. To enroll in the 1987 feedgrains program, farmers have to set aside 20 pct of the program acreage base, and have the option to idle an additional 15 pct under a paid land diversion program. Reuter 
ILLINOIS CO-OP FUTURES DISSOLUTION VOTE SET

The shareholders of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co., the futures trading arm of many Midwest farm cooperatives for more than 25 years, will vote Wednesday on its possible dissolution. The directors of the company called a special meeting and recommended its dissolution last month, citing falling volume and increasing costs. Sources close to the organization told Reuters the pullout of Growmark, Inc., which holds more than 70 pct of the capital stock, led to the call for dissolution. The possible demise of the cooperative has set clearing houses scrambling for the trading business of the 85 regional and local cooperatives that comprise its membership. Ironically, it was Growmark, at that time a regional farm cooperative with major river terminal elevators, that founded Illinois Cooperative Futures on December 1, 1960. But Growmark became affiliated last year with Archer Daniels Midland of Decatur, Ill., and markets its grain through a joint subsidiary of the two companies, ADM/Growmark. With that relationship, Growmark no longer needs to trade futures through the cooperative, said Tom Mulligan, president of the co-op. Membership in the company, which Mulligan termed a cooperative of cooperatives, has declined from 99 in 1982. A notable loss was AgriIndustries of Iowa, which became affiliated with Cargill, Inc. Illinois Co-op's other members include such regional cooperatives as Indiana Grain, based in Indianapolis, Goldkist, of Atlanta, Ga., Midstates in Toledo, Ohio, Farmland Industries in Kansas City, Mo., Farmers Commodities, Des Moines, and Harvest States in Minneapolis. Some observors said the demise of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. is a serious blow to the cooperative system. Instead of banding together, the individual cooperatives are forced to go their own ways, said the floor manager of one cash house at the Chicago Board of Trade. Such a move would destroy the cohesiveness that gives farm cooperatives an advantage in the market at a time that a few major commercial companies are growing dominant, he said. Don Hanes, vice president for communications with the National Council of Farm Cooperatives, said 5,600 cooperatives exist today, down from 6,700 five years ago. "The period we've gone through in the past five years has been quite a crunch," he said. "There's been a lot of consolidation in the marketing co-ops." One problem, he said, is the co-ops sell the grain to the major commercials for export, rather than exporting it themselves, losing potential profits. But exporting grain requires heavy investments, and the multi-million-dollar loss posted six years ago by Farmers Export Co., a co-op set up to export grains, served "to make folks gun-shy," Hanes said. Mulligan said he believes the dissolution, if it is approved, is a result of change in the futures industry rather than a change in U.S. agricultural economics. A grain dealer at one member co-op said the futures arm "was a convenience, something that saved us a little bit of money. (Its dissolution) will force us to change our way of doing business." "We're sorry to see the co-op go by the wayside," he said. "But there are lot of people out there to do business with. There are plenty of capable firms." Steven W. Cavanaugh, vice president for grain marketing with Indiana Grain, said he would prefer to trade futures through a Chicago-based cooperative. "In terms of clearing our business as a unit as opposed to individuals, there would be economic savings," he said but added, "The times change and with changing times, come different opinions of what businesses ought to be around." Cavanaugh said the possible demise of the futures arm had nothing to do with its profitability. "I would guarantee you that this company is not in trouble. It is a sound, healthy organization." In the year ended February 28, 1986, the Illinois Cooperative reported income of 10.2 mln dlrs and members' equity, or net worth, of 8.3 mln dlrs. The annual report for the most recent year has not been filed. Under the cooperative system, income from operations is returned as "patronage refunds" to the members. Income and refunds in the past five years have been declining. In the year ended February 28, 1982, the co-op reported income of 17.4 mln dlrs and patronage refunds of 17.0 mln dlrs. Patronage refunds in the year ended February 28, 1986, totalled 9.5 mln dlrs. "You're dealing with substantially lower volume," Mulligan said. "Lower volume translates into higher costs." According to the company's 1986 annual report, Growmark owns 90 pct of the preferred shares and four pct of the common shares of Illinois Cooperative Futures Co. Mulligan declined to speculate on how much of the capital Growmark is entitled to. He said he could not determine the figure unless the shareholders decide in favor of dissolution. Equity is distributed according to each member's trading volume and, as a result, changes from year to year. However, Mulligan said the company could continue to meet minimum capital requirements to trade futures even if Growmark pulled out. Reuter 
FED BUYS 500 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER

The Federal Reserve purchased about 500 mln dlrs of U.S. Treasury bills for a customer, a spokeswoman said. She said that the Fed bought bills maturing in June and July, and on August 27 and September 10 for regular delivery tomorrow. Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct when the Fed announced the operation. Reuter 
REAGAN SIGNS GNMA BILL WITH RESERVATIONS

President Reagan signed a bill limiting fees that may be charged by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) for its guarantees of privately issued mortgage-backed securities but voiced serious reservations about the measure. He said the bill's provision barring GNMA from increasing its current fee of .06 pct charged to issuers of single-family mortgage backed securities "is an unnecessary and risky congressional intrusion into GNMA's ability to respond quickly and flexibly to changes in financial markets." Reagan said his reservations "must be addressed promptly through remedial amendments." Reagan said the provision hampered GNMA's ability to maintain reserves necessary to meet its obligations, "particularly in light of a disturbing increase in claims and in GNMA's contingent liabilities." Reagan said the legislative cap on fees "could well call into question the adequacy of GNMA's current reserve of 1.4 billion dlrs, given the 250 billion in GNMA-guaranteed securities presently outstanding and GNMA's monthly contingent liability of three billion dlrs." Reagan said he had instructed Housing Secretary Samuel Pierce to work with Congress to draft revisions to the legislation. Reuter 
MEXICO SEES COMPROMISE ON IADB REFORMS

There is a good chance that the United States and Latin America will agree reforms in the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) as a result of talks yesterday with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, Mexican Finance Minister Gustavo Petricioli said. "This is a complex issue, but I am very optimistic on an agreement, he told reporters during the IADB's annual meeting here. The U.S., which holds a 34.5 pct stake in the Bank, has proposed lowering the veto power to 35 pct, a move strongly opposed by Latin countries which together hold 54.2 pct. Petricioli said he saw the basis for a compromise when the issue comes up again during the International Monetary Fund and World Bank interim meetings next month in Washington. He said Baker had indicated receptivity to Latin America's position during talks yesterday with the so-called "A" countries - Brazil, Argentina and Mexico - who stand to suffer a net deficit of IADB funding unless the Bank votes a substantial capital increase. Proposals are on the table for a seventh replenishment of funds totalling 20 billion dlrs for the period 1987-90, plus 2.9 billion carried over from the sixth replenishment. But Washington has previously said it would not agree to a nine billion dlr increase in its subscription unless reforms were agreed, a position described today by Nicaragua's Central Bank governor Joaquin Cuadra Chamorro as undemocratic. Petricioli nevertheless said Baker showed "flexibility in being prepared to accommodate different proposals" and promised to look into alternatives. He said an alternative now being looked at was for new procedures for delaying IADB loan approval, to satisfy U.S. concern that lending is currently too lax, rather than a change in the basic voting structure. There would accordingly be a two-step procedure whereby it would need just a 35 pct vote to delay loan approval for a year, after which a second review would require a 40 pct blocking vote. "Any change in the basic voting structure would require a change in the IADB's charter, and in turn a lengthy process of prior approval by the Congresses of each country," Petricioli said. In common with Venezuela, he expressed reservations on the conditions that might be placed as a result of Washington's proposals for increased IADB sectoral lending, but welcomed a bigger role for the Bank in U.S. debt strategy. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL EASES SOVIET EXPORT CONTROLS

The U.S. House Foreign Affairs Committee voted to ease restrictions on exports that are now kept from shipment to Soviet-bloc countries but are no longer a threat to U.S. national security. The Democratic-controlled committee said the administration's export control policies, which restrict shipment of thousands of products, contributed to last year's record 169 billion dlr U.S. trade deficit. The committee said the legislation will cut government red tape and make it easier for U.S. companies to compete with foreign producers since many of the goods are readily available from other countries. Rep. Don Bonker, chairman of the International Economic Policy subcommittee, said the unnecessary restrictions had cost the U.S. 17 billion dlrs in exports a year. "This is Congress' number one opportunity to attack the trade deficit in a positive way by exporting more," the Washington Democrat said. The legislation would order the Commerce Department to lift controls on 40 pct of goods on the restricted export list over the next three years unless other countries agree to comparable controls. Most of these are of the least sophisticated type of technology such as medical instruments. It would also give the Commerce Department primary authority to decide which exports will be permitted and limit the Defense Department to an advisory role in reviewing requests to export highly-sensitive technology. Reuter 
CITICORP <CCI> RULES OUT CREDIT CARD PRICE WAR

American Express Co's <AXP> recent launch of a new "OPTIMA" credit card, with relatively low interest rates and fees, will increase competition with bank credit-card issuers but will not lead to a pricing war, a senior Citicorp offical said. "Over the next two to three years, a very interesting marketing battle will be fought ... competition will not be on price but on product features," Pei-yuan Chia, head of the U.S. card products group, told a banking analysts meeting. Citicorp is the leading U.S. bank credit-card issuer, with some 10 mln accounts and an 11 pct market share. Chia said that Citicorp would focus its credit card marketing efforts on acceptance, noting that Visa and Mastercard currently enjoy a two-to-one advantage over American Express in terms of worldwide acceptance. He also doubted the popularity of American Express' plan to link interest charges on the new OPTIMA card to the bank prime lending rate. "The consumer likes to have a fixed rate instrument," he said. Richard Braddock, head of the whole individual banking division, added that when there is increased competition, "it is not the big people who get crunched but the small ones." Reuter 
USDA REPORTS CORN SWITCHED TO USSR

The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported 200,000 tonnes of corn previously to unknown destinations have been switched to the Soviet Union. The corn is for delivery during the 1986/87 marketing year and under the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Long Term Grain Supply Agreement. The marketing year for began September 1. Sales of corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement -- which began October 1, 1986 -- now total 2,600,000 tonnes, it said. In the third agreement year sales totaled 6,960,700 tonnes -- 152,600 tonnes of wheat and 6,808,100 tonnes of corn. Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON MARCH 23

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on March 23 to 3.332 billion dlrs from 3.062 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 15.513 billion dlrs from 17.257 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 18.845 billion dlrs on March 23 compared with 20.318 billion dlrs on March 20. Reuter 
USX <X> USS UNIT RAISES PRICES

USX Corp's USS subsidiary said that effective with shipments beginning July 1 prices for all leaded grades and 1200-series grades of hot rolled bar and semi-finished products from its Lorain, Ohio, facility will be increased by 15 dlrs a ton over the prices in effect June 1. It said the increase is being made to reflect current market conditions. Reuter 
ZAIRE AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 RICE - USDA

Zaire has been authorized to purchase about 30,000 tonnes of U.S. rice under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It may buy the rice, valued at 5.5 mln dlrs, between March 31 and August 31, 1987, and ship it from U.S. ports by September 30, the department said. The purchase authorization covers the entire quantity of rice provided under the agreement. Reuter 
U.S. WHEAT CREDITS FOR JORDAN SWITCHED

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has switched 25.0 mln dlrs in wheat credit guarantees to Jordan under the Export Credit Guarantee Program to the Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The switch reduces the total value of GSM-102 guarantees for the current fiscal year to 30.0 mln dlrs. The credit terms extended for export sales under the Intermediate Export Credit Guarantee Program (GSM-103) must be in excess of three years but not more than seven years. All sales must be registered and exports completed by September 30, 1987, the department said. Reuter 
GUINNESS SUES BOESKY IN FEDERAL COURT

<Guinness PLC> has joined investors suing former Wall Street speculator Ivan Boesky, alleging it was deceived into putting money into his one billion dlr investment partnership in 1986. Guinness, the largest limited partner in Ivan F. Boeksy and Co. L.P., is the latest to file suit in federal court in Manhattan against Boesky, court papers show. About 40 other investors have also filed suit over similar allegations, including that Boesky did not reveal his illegal insider trading activities. Guinness is charging it was induced to join in the Boesky partnership through a prospectus that contained "material untrue statements and omissions." The suit also alleged that the Boesky Corporation, which became a part in the formation of the investment partnership, Ivan F. Boesky and Co., L.P., "had achieved its extraordinary rates of return as a result of trading on inside information and other violations of the securities laws." In addition, the suit charged that Boesky and other defendants unlawfully "schemed with and provided substantial assistance to one another to evade the registration provisions" of securities law. Reuter 
CALTEX TO RAISE BAHRAIN OIL PRODUCT PRICES

Caltex Petroleum Corp said it will raise posted prices for naphtha and several grades of residual fuel in Bahrain, effective March 25. Caltex, a joint venture of Chevron Corp <CHV> and Texaco INC <TX>, said its naphtha posting is up four cts a gallon to 43 cts. It said it is raising its marine diesel oil posting by 30 cts a barrel to 20.24 dlrs a barrel. Light, medium, and heavy fuel oil postings are up 1.50 dlrs a barrel, the company said. This will bring the light fuel oil price to 16.90 dlrs, medium to 15.50 dlrs, and heavy to 14.60 dlrs, the company said. Reuter 
CHARTER CO <QCHR> TO COMPLETE REORGANIZATION

Charter Co, the huge petrochemical concern in bankruptcy proceedings stemming from hundreds of dioxin-related claims, said it and all of its subsidiaries, except the Independent Petrochemical Corp, will complete their reorganization on March 31. It said that on that date, it will deposit with an escrow agent 288.8 mln dlrs in cash, 66.7 mln dlrs in notes and 31 mln shares of its common for distribution. Company officials were not immediately available for comment. As previously reported, Charter settled dioxin-related claims for about 1,200 individuals and the state of Missouri, resolving claims against it and all subsidiaries except Independent Petrochemical. Charter said some of the settlements remain subject to appeals and final court approvals and resolve claims against charter and its subsidiaries except Independent Petrochemical. It said about 500 individual claims against it and certain of its units remain pending as disputed claims in bankruptcy court. It said about 300 of these claims have been filed since confirmation of the joint plan of reorganization. Charter said its two creditors, an equity committee in its bankruptcy proceedings and <American Financial Corp>, which will own 50.5 pct of its common after the reorganization, have waived the requirement that Charter resolve all dioxin-related claims against it prior to completing its reorganization. That requirement excludes claims against Independent Petrochemical. Charter also said a plan for liquidation of Independent has been approved by the bankruptcy court and will be completed after March 31. Earlier, Charter reported net income for the year of 153.2 mln dlrs, which included a gain of 28.5 mln dlrs for discontinued operations and 114.8 mln dlrs for the settlement of claims in its reorganization proceedings. In 1985, it reported earnings of 1,274,000 dlrs, which included a loss of 36.3 mln dlrs for discontinued operations and 29.4 mln dlrs for extraordinary items. For the fourth quarter, it reported earnings of 118.8 mln dlrs, including a gain of 28.6 mln dlrs for discontinued operations and 90.5 mln dlrs mainly for claims settlements. In the year-ago period, Charter reported a loss of 13 mln dlrs. Reuter 
NASD TO BEGIN SEARCH FOR NEW PRESIDENT

The National Association of Securities Dealers, which will launch a search for a new president later this week, will probably concentrate on candidates with an extensive background in the financial markets, officials of the organization said today. Gordon Macklin, 58, who has served as president for 17 years, today announced his decision to leave the organization of 6,658 broker-dealers. Macklin will join Hambrecht and Quist as chairman and co-chief executive officer. Association chairman Joseph Hardiman will appoint a search committee later this week. The committee will have its first meeting as early as next week. The new president is expected to be someone knowledgable about the over-the-counter markets and committed to the concept of self-regulation. Macklin joined the association as president in 1970, leaving a position at McDonald and Co. The National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations System, which currently lists 5200 securities of 4400 companies, was ushered in 10 months after Macklin's arrival. Reuter 
BRAZIL COMPUTER MARKET TO REMAIN CLOSED-MINISTER

Brazilian Science and Technology Minister Renato Archer said Brazil will keep its computer market closed to foreign goods in order to give its own infant industry time to develop. "Every country establishes laws to protect its interests. The United States closed their borders at a certain stage to some foreign goods and therefore protected its industrial development. Now it is time for Brazil to do likewise," Archer said at the opening of a national software conference. After several meetings, Brazil and the U.S. Have made no major progress in their computer row, which they have been trying to resolve for the past 18 months. The Reagan administration has objected to Brazil protecting its computer industry from imports. Reuter 
U.S. CORN ACREAGE SEEN NEAR RECORD LOW

U.S. corn acreage this year is likely to drop to the lowest level since the unsurpassed acreage reductions of the 1983 PIK year and could rank as one of the lowest corn plantings in the United States in sixty years, Agriculture Department officials said. USDA releases its official plantings report on March 31. Agriculture Department analysts said next week's figures will likely show a sharp drop in acreage to as low as 65 mln acres, down 22 pct from last year's plantings of 83.3 mln acres. Assuming an 18 mln acre drop in plantings, U.S. corn production will also decrease significantly. Analysts said 1987 corn production could drop by over one billion bushels to around seven billion bushels. Expected signup of up to 90 pct in the 1987 feed grains program, along with 1.9 mln acres enrolled in the conservation program, will cause acreage to plummet, Department feedgrain analysts said. "There's no question that there will be a sharp decrease in corn acreage," one said. "It's difficult for any farmer to not go along with the program this year." Soybean acreage is also expected to decline this year but at a much slower rate of around four pct, USDA analysts said. Soybean plantings could drop to 59 mln acres or below, they said, compared to last year's level of 61.5 mln acres. If analysts' unofficial estimates prove correct then the drop in u.s. corn acreage will be the largest since 1983 when farmers idled 22 mln acres in the Payment-In-Kind program. Farmers planted only around 60 mln acres of corn in 1983. A severe drought that summer in major producing states caused yields to tumble and final crop production to total only 4.2 billion bushels. Given normal weather conditions this year, USDA analysts said the 1987 corn crop could end up around seven billion bushels, down from last year's crop of 8.3 billion bushels. "This kind of acreage reduction will mean a significant reduction in production," an analyst said. A crop of seven billion bushels is close to the annual U.S. corn usage, so surplus stocks, while not decreasing, would not increase significantly, a specialist said. High producing corn belt states are expected to show the greatest acreage reductions, based upon historical participation in government programs, analysts said. In contrast, soybean acreage is likely to be cut the most in marginal producing areas of the southeast and the western corn belt, a USDA soybean analyst said. "Soybean acreage in the eastern corn belt will not budge," he said. Neither does he expect any significant acreage cuts in higher-producing delta areas. Soybean production could drop fractionally from last year's 2.0 billion bushels to 1.8 to 1.9 billion, he said. U.S. soybean acreage, after soaring to 71.4 mln acres in 1979 from only 52 mln acres five years prior to that, has steadily declined in the 1980's. U.S. corn acreage, with the exception of 1983, has been in the low to mid 80-mln acre range for the past 10 years. The highest corn plantings reported in the 60 years that USDA has kept such records was in 1932 when farmers planted 113 mln acres and obtained average yields of 26.5 bushels per acre. Last year U.S. farmers obtained record corn yields averaging 119.3 bushels per acre. "We have absolutely no trouble producing an eight billion bushel crop on only 80 mln acres or so," an analyst said. Corn acreage will probably level at around 65 mln acres as long as government program provisions remain the same, analysts said. Currently farmers enrolling in the program are required to set aside 20 pct of their base acreage and then are eligible for payments of two dlrs per bushel by idling an additional 15 pct of their acreage. "To get to the PIK level of 60 mln acres, we would have to provide more incentives," an analyst said. Reuter 
U.S. SENATORS SEEK TO EXPAND USDA EXPORT BONUS

Leading U.S. farm state senators are seeking to insert into the Senate's omnibus trade bill a provision that would broaden eligibility requirements under the U.S. Agriculture Department's export enhancement program, EEP, to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, including the Soviet Union, Senate staff said. Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies to recoup export markets lost to competing nations' unfair trading practices. Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort to broaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to be eligible for the subsidies, sources said. The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor (D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) -- also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield pork producers and processors from Canadian imports. The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), would clarify the definition of "industry" in determining whether or not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers. Grassley's bill stems from a 1985 decision by the International Trade Commission that imports from Canada of live swine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harming U.S. producers. The bill's proponents have argued Canada has simply replaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS FED ACTED TO STABILIZE DOLLAR

Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said the dollar has stabilized against other currencies after action taken by the Fed. "We have taken the appropriate action and the dollar has stabilized," Johnson said after testifying to a House Banking subcommittee. He did not elaborate on the nature of the action nor when it was taken, but said that it was in the spirit of the agreement reached by six industrial nations in Paris recently. Johnson said the dollar's decline against other currencies such as the Japanese yen has been gradual. Since the accord by the United States, Britain, West Germany, Japan, France and Canada, foreign exchange markets have been closely watching for indications of intervention by central banks to determine the committment by those nations to their agreement. The nations agreed that currency exchange rates were at about the correct levels when the pact was signed earlier this year. Reuter 
VENEZUELA TO ANNOUCE PARTNER FOR COAL VENTURE

Petroleos de Venezuela S.A will announce within two weeks the name of a foreign consortium it has chosen to help exploit the coal deposits at Guasare in western Zulia state, PDVSA president Juan Chacin Guzman said. Chacin told reporters the foreign partner will provide capital as well as technical and marketing expertise to the Carbozulia project, which the state oil company will manage. PDVSA officials said that among those who bid for the partnership is a consortium between Agip Carbone, a subsidiary of Italy's Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi (ENI), and Atlantic Richfield <ARC> of the United States. Minister of Energy and Mines Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said discussions are currently taking place to finalize the terms of the contract with the foreign partner. PDVSA vice-president Pablo Reimpell said last week the first shipment of coal from the Carbozulia project should be made during the final quarter of 1987, and would measure between 100-150,000 metric tons. Plans call for production to eventually reach 500,000 mt annually. Reimpell said the original investment in the project will be approximately 8 billion bolivars. Reuter 
U.S. SUGAR QUOTA MAY BE EASED, CONGRESSMAN SAYS

The United States may soon ease its 1987 sugar import quota of one mln short tons by bringing forward to the third quarter some shipments scheduled for the fourth quarter of 1987, Jerry Huckaby, a leading Congressman representing sugar growers told Reuters in an interview. Huckaby, a Louisiana Democrat and chairman of the House subcommittee which deals with the sugar program, indicated the easing of the quota might be a way to calm the concern about the impact of the severe cut in U.S. sugar imports this year. "With imports coming down from 1.8 mln (last year) to one mln, there is legitimate concern about the impacts on Caribbean countries and the Philippines," Huckaby said. By bringing forward to the third quarter some imports, the quota would effectively be eased by about 250,000 tons. Huckaby said by simply bringing forward to the third quarter of the year sugar imports scheduled for the September to December period "we could get away without having to increase the quota." He noted that some in the sugar industry believe an increase in the quota is justified. Earlier this month, representatives of U.S. cane sugar refiners met with U.S. Agriculture Department officials to request a quota increase of at least 200,000 tons. The refiners said the increase is needed because the quota is so restrictive there could be some spot shortages of sugar in the U.S later this year, a refiner spokesman said. However, the official slaid the USDA replied only that it would consider the request. Following the refiners' request, representatives of the Florida sugarcane producers met with USDA to express opposition to any quota expansion, industry sources said. The statement by Huckaby, who as a representative from a sugar growing district in Louisiana is a leading architect of the current sugar program, indicates at least some grower officials are concerned enough to support an easing of the import quota, industry officials said. Any final decision on easing the quota must be made by the Reagan administration's interagency sugar policy group. Asked about possible quota changes, A USDA official said "As far as I know, changing the quota volume or the quota year is not under active consideration." Reuter 
CANADA VOWS TO FIGHT U.S. POTASH ACTION

External Affairs Minister Joe Clark today vowed to do everything possible to fight the U.S. action against Canadian potash exports, but also warned against raising the alarm too early in the dispute. In the latest flashpoint in Canadian-U.S. trade relations, the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled unanimously Monday that Canadian potash shipments valued at 270 million U.S. dlrs last year were injuring the U.S. industry. "We certainly intend to do everything we can to insure that Canadian interests are well protected," Clark told the House of Commons in the daily question period. But he said the opposition parties should be careful "not to raise false alarms too early." The case now goes before the U.S. Commerce Department's trade division to determine if a duty should be imposed. Potash producers from New Mexico, claiming unfair government subsidies, are seeking a 43 pct tariff on Canada's shipments. Canada, the world's largest potash producer, exported 9.8 mln metric tonnes of potash last year, with nearly a third going to the U.S. Most of the potash, used in the production of fertilizer, comes from provincially owned mines in Saskatchewan. In the Commons, Liberal member Lloyd Axworthy branded the ruling as just another "trade harrassment" from the U.S. and criticized Clark's assurances the country's interests would be protected. "We received exactly the same kind of assurances in the softwood lumber case that was totally fumbled and bumbled," Axworthy said. Canada's Progressive Conservative government agreed to impose a 15 pct duty on its softwood lumber exports earlier this year to end a long and bitter bilateral trade dispute with the U.S. Axworthy urged the government to present Canada's case to world trade authorities under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. But Clark maintained the potash dispute was another example of why Canada needs to find a new way to settle bilateral irritants in the free trade negotiations under way with the U.S. "What we are seeking to do is put in place a better system," Clark said. Meanwhile, Saskatchewan Trade Minister Bob Andrew expressed confidence Canada would win its case, claiming the problem stems from low international commodity prices and not government subsidies. "The reality of the problem and the injury is caused worldwide," he said. "It's caused by a downturn in the commodity price for fertilizer, whether it's potash fertilizer, nitrogen fertilizer or whatever." Reuter 
VOLCKER CALLS DOLLAR SLIDE ENOUGH

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that the dollar's slide in currency markets has been enough, a Fed spokesman said. The spokesman confirmed that Volcker, who spoke to a group of financial analysts, said in answer to a question about the dollar's recent slide that "enough is enough." Volcker has often expressed concern about the dollar falling too rapidly in currency markets. Reuter 
NASDAQ SHORT INTEREST IN MARCH FALLS

NASDAQ said short interest as of mid-march totaled 184.9 mln shares compared to 215.7 mln shares for the month of February. NASDAQ said the mid-March figures are based on 3,983 securities and the February figures are based on 3,842 securities. Reuter 
PORTUGAL MAY HAVE PURCHASED U.S. CORN

Portugal may have purchased a 30,000 tonne cargo at its tender today for up to 43,000 tonnes of number two yellow corn (14.5 pct maximum moisture) for arrival by April 30, shipment via Gulf ports, U.S. exporters said. Reuter 
TAIWAN TENDERING THURSDAY FOR U.S. CORN

Taiwan will tender Thursday, March 26, for a total of 356,000 tonnes of U.S. number two yellow corn (14.5 pct moisture) for various Sept/Dec shipments via Gulf or Pacific Northwest ports, U.S. exporters said. Reuter 
SRI LANKA TENDERING OVERNIGHT FOR WHEAT

Sri lanka will tender overnight for 52,500 tonnes of U.S., Canadian and/or Australian wheats for April 8/16 shipment, under the Export Enhancement Program if U.S. origin, U.S. exporters said. Reuter 
TRANSCONTINENTAL <TGP> FILES NEW OFFER

Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp said that it is not willing to accept the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's conditioned approval of its proposed offer of settlement dated May 13. Transco said it filed a revised settlement proposal which would permit it to become an open access transporter while restructuring gas sales services. The new offer includes a gas supply inventory charge to customers who fail to buy 60 pct of their annual contract quantities and 35 pct of their summer contract quantities. Reuter 
MIAMI-Brazil and bank advisory committee agree to 60-day extension on credit lines



Miami-Brazil says it expects to make no interest payments before March 31



CORRECTED-MIAMI-Brazil, bank committee will transmit request for 60-day credit extension



BRAZIL/BANK COMMITTEE AGREE ON CREDIT REQUEST

Brazil and its bank advisory committee agreed to transmit a request for an extension of short-term credit lines totalling 16 billion dlrs for 60 days until May 31, Brazilian Central Bank President Francisco Gros said. Speaking after talks with the committee here, Gros also said he did not expect to make interest payment to the banks at this moment. He added that "no one should expect any dramatic developments before March 31." Brazil last month suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dlrs debt to commercial banks and froze short-term trade and money market lines. Bankers said they would relay the Brazilian request for an extension but declined to say whether they were specifically endorsing it. Gros said the decision, which he called a "standstill" arrangement, will be communicated to Brazil's 700 bank creditors by telex tomorrow. Banks had been pressing Brazil to make at least a token interest payment, but Gros said the government was unable to comply for the moment. He stressed however that Brazil was willing to pay as soon as it could, but added that a payment of interest was not connected with the extension of the credit lines. "That would not be wise," he said. He said that the extension of the short-term lines would not be carried out through "an official instrument" as there was not time to complete the legal requirements. Gros said Brazil was likely to meet again with the 14-bank advisory committee once Brazil had information to present on an economic plan. REUTER 
U.S.-CHINA CIGARETTE FILTER JOINT VENTURE SET UP

Jiangsu Tobacco Corp and <Celanese Fibres Operations Ltd> yesterday established China's first cigarette filter joint venture, the Nantong Cellulose Fibres Co, the China Daily said. The joint venture factory, due to start operations in 1989, will be able to produce up to 10,000 tonnes of cellulose fibre annually, it said. Cellulose fibre is the main component of cigarette filters, which China has always imported. It said Celanese Fibres owns 30.68 pct of the Jiangsu province-based joint venture which has a total investment of 35.17 mln dlrs. REUTER 
TAIWAN SEES ITS INVESTMENT IN U.S. RISING SHARPLY

Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Is expected to nearly double to 80 mln U.S. Dlrs in calendar 1987 and rise to 400 mln dlrs a year by 1991, a five-year forecast by the Economic Ministry showed. Taiwanese investment in the U.S. Last year totalled 46 mln dlrs, the ministry document said. The investment was mainly in electronics, trading, food and service industries. Lee Ming-Yi, deputy director of the ministry's Industrial Development and Investment Centre, said the forecast rise is due to planned government incentives and growing willingness among Taiwanese to invest abroad. Lee told Reuters the incentives, to be introduced in May or June, include bank loans and a reduction in capitalisation requirements for businesses seeking to invest in the U.S. To 10 mln Taiwan dlrs from 20 mln. He said the moves to encourage investment in the U.S. Are part of Taiwan's efforts to cut its trade surplus with Washington, which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986 from 1985's 10.2 billion. Taiwanese manufacturers can create jobs for Americans and avoid import quotas if they set up plants in the U.S., He added. REUTER 
BROCKWAY AIR TO BUY FIVE SAAB PLANES

The U.S. Airline Brockway Air, a subsidiary of <Brockway Inc>, has signed an agreement with Saab-Scania AB <SABS ST> to buy five 34-seater Saab SF340 aircraft for an undisclosed price, with an option on a further five, Saab said. All five will be delivered to the Burlington, Vermont-based airline this year for use on Brockway's 22-city service system. Saab said it now had 103 firm orders for the regional SF340, 80 of which had already been delivered. REUTER 
BRAZIL/BANK COMMITTEE AGREE ON CREDIT REQUEST

Brazil and its bank advisory committee agreed to transmit a request for an extension of short-term credit lines totaling 16 billion dlrs for 60 days until May 31, Brazilian Central Bank President Francisco Gros said. Speaking after talks with the committee here, Gros also said he did not expect to make interest payment to the banks at this moment. He added that "no one should expect any dramatic developments before March 31." Brazil last month suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dlrs debt to commercial banks and froze short-term trade and money market lines. Bankers said they would relay the Brazilian request for an extension but declined to say whether they were specifically endorsing it. Gros said the decision, which he called a "standstill" arrangement, will be communicated to Brazil's 700 bank creditors by telex tomorrow. Banks had been pressing Brazil to make at least a token interest payment, but Gros said the government was unable to comply for the moment. He stressed however that Brazil was willing to pay as soon as it could, but added that a payment of interest was not connected with the extension of the credit lines. "That would not be wise," he said. He said that the extension of the short-term lines would not be carried out through "an official instrument" as there was not time to complete the legal requirements. Gros said Brazil was likely to meet again with the 14-bank advisory committee once Brazil had information to present on an economic plan. REUTER 
BRAZIL, BANKS FAIL TO MAKE BREAKTHROUGH IN DEBT TALKS

Brazil and its bank creditors failed to achieve any breakthrough in debt talks here last night after Brazil refused to say when it would resume interest payments. Central Bank governor Francisco Gros said after a meeting with a 14-bank advisory committee that Brazil cannot make any interest payments at this time, though it would do so "as soon as we can." The talks came as the annual meeting of the 44-nation Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), in which both Gros and the bankers had been taking part, moved toward a close here. Bankers leaving the meeting with Gros declined to discuss details of the talks, though some expressed satisfaction that Brazil had agreed to continue working with the committee. At the same time, Gros told reporters not to expect any dramatic developments before March 31, the date when some U.S. banks have said they will take a decision whether to put Brazil loans on a non-performing basis. Brazil suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dlr foreign debt to commercial banks on February 20 and shortly after announced it was freezing some 16 billion dlrs in short-term credit lines. Banks are not obliged to declare these loans non-performing before 90 days have elapsed, but the move to announce a possible decision in this respect was viewed as a means of exerting pressure on Brazil. The bank committee, headed by Citibank, had been pressing Brazil to make at least a token payment of interest but Gros said this was not possible right now. "We are not in a position to make a payment at this stage," Gros said. At the same time, the two sides reached a stopgap arrangement on the short-term trade and money-market credit lines, whereby the committee agreed to transmit a Brazilian request to extend the lines for 60 days until May 31. Banks have been indicating they will not renew credit lines in response to the Brazilian move. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS BID ON CATTLE FOR EGYPT - USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 760 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The delivery period for the cattle is April, 1987-June, 1988, it said. The bonus of 1,870.00 dlrs per head was made to Esmah Nevada Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory. An additional 7,199 head of dairy cattle are still available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced September 12, 1986, the department said. Reuter 
KEY U.S. HOUSE PANEL FINISHES MAJOR TRADE BILL

The House Ways and Means Committee completed action on legislation to toughen U.S. trade laws, chairman Dan Rostenkowski said. The committee's consideration of one of the most controversial provisions, a plan to force major trade surplus countries to cut their trade imbalance with the United States, was deferred until the full House considers the trade bill, its sponsor Rep. Richard Gephardt said. Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, told Reuters he was not certain the exact form his trade surplus reduction proposal would take. Last year the House approved his plan to force a 10 pct surplus cutback each year for four years, by countries such as Japan. The Ways and Means Committess' trade bill forces President Reagan to retaliate against unfair trade practices that violate international trade agreements but it allows him to wave retaliatory tariffs or quotas if the action would hurt the U.S. economy. The trade bill gives U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter more authority in trade negotiations and in decisions to grant domestic industries import relief. It also gives him authority to decide whether foreign trade practices are unfair and violate U.S. trading rights. These powers are currently held by President Reagan. The administration has strongly objected to this transfer of authority from Reagan to Yeutter. The bill also extends U.S. authority to negotiate multilateral trade agreements. The bill will be wrapped into other trade legislation and voted on in the House in April. Reuter 
CPC EXPECTS EUROPEAN SALE TO CUT DEBT

CPC International Inc officials said the sale of the company's European corn wet milling business will remove about 700 mln dlrs of debt and liabilities from CPC's balance sheet. They told analysts the deal, expected to close in September, and cash flow from other operations will reduce total debt by about one-third this year. At the end of 1986, CPC's debt totaled about 1.5 billion dlrs. The officials also said the company has no current plans to sell its U.S. or North American corn wet milling businesses. CPC's 1987 capital spending is budgeted at about 250 mln dlrs, down from about 361 mln dlrs last year, the officials told analysts. Reuter 
NORANDA RAISES PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRICES

Noranda Aluminum Inc. said it has increased its primary aluminum prices by two cents a lb, effective with new orders as of March 25 and all shipments beginning May 1. The new price for unalloyed ingot will be 64.5 cents a lb while the new price for extrusion billet will be 72.5 cents a lb. Reuter 
BEN EQUITY HOLDINGS <BH> SUSPENDED ON NYSE

The New York Stock Exchange said trading in the units of BenEquity Holdings, a California Limited Partnership, was suspended before the opening and an application will be made to the Securities and Exchange Commission to delist the issue. The Exchange said it normally considers suspending and removing from its list the securities of a company when fewer than 600,000 units are held by the public. As a result of a tender offer by <Renouf Corp International>, which expired March 24, 1987, fewer than 600,000 units of BenEquity remained publicly held. Reuter 
REAGAN OPPOSES NEW TAXES, SEEKS BUDGET

President Reagan opposed new taxes as he urged the Democratic controlled Congress to come up with a budget that meets the Gramm-Rudman deficit target of 108 billion dlrs for fiscal 1988. He told reporters before meeting with House Republicans in Congress that for six years he had proposed a "a sound, solid budget" but alleged that Democrats had only come forth with a so-called continuing resolution, a catch-all spending bill, each year. Asked about taxes, he said "they're not going to get those either." Reagan's appearance with Republicans coincided with a dispute among House Budget Committee Democrats and Republicans. Republicans have boycotted budget drafting sessions. "I'm still trying to get a budget that meets the Gramm-Rudman target," Reagan said. "The Democrats have refused to present a budget of their own." House Budget Committee Chairman William Gray told reporters after Reagan's remarks that "They (Republicans) don't want to participate. The President is up there bashing our brains while Republicans won't give us a markup (drafting meeting). It's an interesting combination." Reuter 
IRAN SAYS HAS BETTER WEAPONS THAN SILKWORM

Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi said Iran had "more effective" missiles at its disposal than the shore-to-sea missiles which had provoked U.S. Concern, Tehran Radio reported. A U.S. State Department spokesman said last week Iran had acquired Chinese-made Silkworm missiles which posed a greater threat to shipping in the Gulf than the weapons previously used. Tehran Radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corp, quoted Mousavi as saying that Tehran officially announced after its forces overran southern Iraq's Faw peninsula in February last year that it had shore-to-sea missiles. "The fact that the Americans, after so much delay, are now thinking of expressing their concern with panic is because Reagan needs this sensation now," said Mousavi, speaking after a cabinet meeting in Tehran. "We also announce today that these missiles are not the limit of our war capabilities in the Gulf," he added. Mousavi said the security of the Gulf region had nothing to do with the U.S. But Iran would resort to any action to defend the Gulf, "even those actions which are not thought probable by Westerners." Reuter 
NYFE SEAT SELLS FOR 200 DLRS

The New York Stock Exchange said a seat on the New York Futures Exchange sold for 200 dlrs, unchanged from the previous sale on Tuesday. The Exchange said the current bid is 100 dlrs and the offer is 200 dlrs. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MARKET

The Federal Reserve will probably intervene in the government securities market to add reserves today, economists said. They expected the Fed will supply temporary reserves indirectly via 1.5 to two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. Fed funds hovered at a relatively high 6-1/4 pct this morning after averaging 6.14 pct on Tuesday. Early this afternoon the Fed also is expected to supply reserves permanently, effective Thursday, by offering to buy all maturities of Treasury bills. Reuter 
NY TRADERS SAY TURKEY MADE LARGE SUGAR PURCHASE

Turkey bought an estimated 100,000 tonnes of white sugar from three trade houses today for April to June shipment, according to trade sources. They said a large U.K. trade house sold 50,000 tonnes, a U.S. house traded 25,000 tonnes, and a Swiss-based dealer house 25,000 tonnes. Price details were unclear but reports this morning suggested that Turkey was offered sugar at prices ranging down to 212 dlrs a tonne, c and f basis. Reuter 
NY TRADERS EXPECT CHINA TO STEP UP SUGAR BUYING

Trade house sources said China is expected to step up its sugar purchases following yesterday's steep drop in world sugar prices. The consensus is that the Chinese will buy between 200,000 and 400,000 tonnes of raw sugar. "China is short of foreign exchange and a drop in prices is usually taken as a buying opportunity by Peking," one trader said. Yesterday, prices on the New York world sugar market plummeted by 0.58 to 0.50 cent on heavy liquidation by speculators, disenchanted over the market's lack of rallying power. Speculation is that China will need the sugar for the May/July period. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE PANEL APPROVES TRADE MISSION BILL

The U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee approved a bill that would establish farm trade and aid missions to promote the use of U.S. food aid, donation, credit and export subsidy programs by overseas customers. The bill, approved by voice vote, would establish trade missions made up of representatives of the Departments of Agriculture and State, the Agency for International Development, the Overseas Private Investment Corp, market development cooperatives and private voluntary organizations. At least 16 missions would have to be sent within one year after enactment of the bill. The missions would promote U.S. programs, including PL480, Section 416 donations, Export Enhancement Program, the dairy export incentive program, and export credit guarantee programs (GSM-102, GSM-103). The panel agreed to drop a provision in the original bill, offered by Sen. John Melcher (D-Mont.), that would have required the U.S. Agriculture Department to donate at least one mln tonnes of surplus commodities to developing countries. Current law requires USDA to donate at least 750,000 tonnes of surplus grains and dairy products under the Section 416 food donation program. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the proposed increase in the minimum tonnage requirement would have cost up to 50 mln dlrs per year, Senate staff said. The committee also dropped a provision identifying which countries would be the focus of the trade missions' activities. Under the bill adopted by the committee, countries "friendly to the United States" would be eligible to host the trade missions. Melcher originally had proposed sending missions to Mexico, the Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Senegal, Nigeria, Peru, Kenya, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Malaysia, Venezuela, Tunisia and Morocco. The bill also would require the Foreign Agricultural Service, FAS, to have at least 850 full-time employees during fiscal years 1987-89. As of February 28, FAS had 790 full-time employees, a FAS spokesman said. Reuter 
ENERGY/U.S. OIL OUTPUT

Energy Secretary John Herrington has proposed several ways to boost U.S. oil production, but he said all would cost the Treasury money and will come under close White House scrutiny before action is taken. One measure he said he favored would raise the depletion allowance to 27.5 pct on new oil and gas production as well as production using enhanced extraction methods. Herrington said such a plan would cost 200 mln dlrs a year. The White House, reacting, said it did not favor amending the tax code, but would look at the proposal. Herrington's proposals to spur production were made along with the release last week of the energy department's report on energy and the national security. The report said U.S. oil imports, rapidly rising, could hit 50 pct by the mid 1990s and have potentially damaging implications for national security. He has said since in speeches and at news conferences that any plan he would back to spur lagging domestic oil production would have to meet three criteria--increase production, not cause economic dislocation, and be low cost to the taxpayer. Herrington said an import fee would meet the first test, spurring production but fail the second and third. He said it would raise production and return 120,000 oil workers to their jobs, but at the same time it lifted oil prices, the higher prices would cost 400,000 jobs nationwide and cut the gross national product by 32 billion dlrs. A tax on gasoline, he said, would fail the first criteria by not increasing domestic production. In any case, U.S. officials say, President Reagan remains firmly opposed to an import fee and a gasoline tax. Options which meet Herrington's criteria include: - Loan-price guarantees to shield banks from defaults by borrowers because of lower oil prices. It was estimated that if oil fell to five dlrs a barrel it could trigger defaults that could cost the government an estimated 15 billion dlrs. - A five pct tax credit for exploration and development. It would raise oil and gas production the equivalent of 325,000 barrels a day, at a cost of 740 mln dlrs a year. - A five pct credit only for geological and geophysical expenditures. It would increase production by 80,000 barrels a day, at a cost of 65 mln dlrs. - Lower bid minimums on outer continental shelf acreage to spur exploration. A drop from the present 150 dlrs per acre for the typical 5,760 acre tract to 25 dlrs per acre would lower the cost of the standard tract lease to 144,000 dlrs. Herrington also pressed anew for existing Administration proposals to deregulate natural gas, which he said would cut the need for imported oil by 300,000 barrels daily. He also called again for Congressional approval to explore off the continental shelf, which may hold more than 12 billion barrels of oil, and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which may hold nine billion barrels. Herrington said he understood the Reagan's reluctance to amend the newly enacted tax code to fund some of these proposals, but added he hoped his department's energy/security study would make a strong case for the need to help the struggling domestic oil industry. Another move Herrington said he will press anew, even though it had been rejected earlier by the White House, is to raise the fill-rate for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to 100,000 barrels a day from its planned 1988 rate of 35,000. This, he said, would further bolster national security in case of an oil-supply disruption. Reuter 
NEWMONT GOLD <NGC> SEES GOLD SALES RISING

Newmont Gold Corp expects gold sales in 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986's 474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report. Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp <NEM>, said it expects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and 1989 as well. Reuter 
U.S. SUGAR POLICY MAY SELF-DESTRUCT, CONGRESSMAN

A leading U.S. farm-state Congressman, Jerry Huckaby, D-La., warned he will press next year for legislation to control domestic production of sweeteners, perhaps including corn sweeteners, if the industry fails to voluntarily halt output increases this year. "We're moving toward a direction where we could self-destruct (the U.S. sugar program)," Rep. Huckaby, chairman of the House agriculture subcommittee dealing with sugar issues, told Reuters in an interview. Huckaby, who told U.S. sugarbeet growers earlier this year they must halt production increases, said he will deliver the same message to Louisiana sugarcane growers Friday. He also said he will soon talk with corn refiners on the subject. Huckaby said the campaign to urge a halt to domestic sweetener output increases is an effort to forestall further cuts in the sugar import quota, now at one mln short tons. "I think if we're talking about dropping (the quota) another half mln tons, lets say, you're getting to the point where the program might not work," he said. "Ideally, I'd like to freeze things right where we are," said Huckaby, leading advocate for sugar growers in Congress. A freeze would mean domestic sugar production at about the current level of 6.5 mln tons, the corn sweetener share of the U.S. market staying at just over 50 pct, and U.S sugar imports holding at about 1.2 mln tons, Huckaby said. A decision on whether to seek legislation will not be made until 1987 output numbers are known late this year, he said. "I feel like if we didn't expand production, we could probably hold where we are indefinitely, or at least through the 1985 farm bill without any changes (in the sugar program)," Huckaby said. However, much depends on whether high-fructose corn syrup producers continue to expand their share of the U.S. sweetener market from just over 50 pct, Huckaby said. He noted most estimates are that corn sweeteners will capture at most only another 10 pct of the sweetener market in the U.S. But he said if there were an economic breakthrough in the production of a new crystalline corn sweetener which further expanded the corn sweetener share, then U.S. sugar imports might be eliminated and U.S. sugar output severely reduced. Huckaby said he will deliver this message to corn refiner companies such as A.E. Staley and Archer Daniels Midland soon. "This program is advantageous to the corn users. They have some natural, legitimate self-interest in seeing that the program is preserved," Huckaby said. Huckaby said he has asked sugar industry representatives to think about how domestic output could be controlled, either through production allocations, acreage or marketing controls. Huckaby also said he would be seeking guidance from the Justice Department to determine if it would be legal to ask corn refiners to limit production. "I don't know if we will go this route, but if we do there's a question in my mind at this point in time; can you do that legally?" he said. Asked if he would proceed with production controls without the support of corn refiners, Huckaby said "You build a fragile house if you do it that way." Huckaby said he understands why U.S. cane and beet farmers have expanded production, because high sugar price support means returns from sugar are higher than competing crops such as soybeans and grain. But he said for sugar growers as a whole, expansion would not be good policy. Huckaby said he has tried to stress, in his speeches to sugar industry groups, that if growers continue to expand, they may be penalized retroactively under any production control legislation passed next year. Huckaby said Congress is unlikely to approve any changes in the sugar program this year despite a Reagan administration proposal to drastically slash the program. "The administration proposal is so drastic, that I don't think it will get up a head of steam," Huckaby said. He said even a more moderate proposal to reduce sugar price support is unlikely to be approved. Instead of seeking to slash the domestic sugar program, Huckaby said the Reagan administration should file a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade against the European Community's sugar policy. He said EC policies are the major cause of the depressed world sugar market. Reuter 
NEWMONT GOLD SEES ITS SALES RISING 22 PCT

Newmont Gold Corp expects gold sales in 1987 to rise about 22 pct to 577,000 ounces from 1986's 474,000 ounces, the company said in its annual report. Newmont Gold, 95 pct owned by Newmont Mining Corp, said it expects significant increases in gold sales in 1988 and 1989 as well. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES CUT IN TRADE DEFICIT

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the administration is confident the effect of exchange rate changes will bring about a cut in the trade deficit this year. In testimony before the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, Baker conceded that the effect thus far has "not yet proved as quick or as strong as had been expected from past experience." He told the committee, however, that the "initial signs are encouraging." Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS ECONOMIC COOPERATION WORKS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the meeting last month in Paris in which finance ministers agreed to keep the dollar at current levels showed that the economic cooperation process was working. He said that at that meeting the surplus countries committed themselves to strengthening their growth prospects, while the deficit countries agreed to reduce their domestic imbalances. For its part, he said the United States must press forward with reductions in the federal budget deficit and must continue to oppose protectionist pressures. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER OUTLINES TRADE BILL CRITICISMS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that some of the trade bills proposed by Congress conflict significantly with certain basic principles the Reagan administration considers critical. Baker told a Senate committee that the administration would resist such measures as a general import surcharge, sector-specific protection such as import quotas for individual products, mandatory retaliation, and limits on presidential discretion in negotiating more open markets abroad and other trade steps. Reuter 
LYNG SAYS AGRICULTURE SHOULD SHARE SPENDING CUTS

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said agriculture should share spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law and that this would ultimately help exports. "There needs to be some reduction of some expenditures to at least get close to the Gramm-Rudman figure," he said. "Agriculture would not be independent from that." He told a Virginia Farm Bureau lunch, "I don't think anyone believes we'll meet the 108 billion dlr target." Lyng said if the federal deficit came down, this would help exports. "A failure to get the fiscal deficit under control is having a harmful effect on agricultural exports." He added, however, that U.S. agricultural exports had increased under the Farm Security Act but so far had not recovered to what he called the successful levels of 1981. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS NEW MONEY NOT PANACEA

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that massive new lending to the debtor nations could actually increase their difficulties in the period ahead without protections. In testimony before a Senate committee, Baker said that "throwing money at the debtor nations won't solve their problems." He said it might seem like an easy solution to the debt problems and might appear a simple way to boost U.S. exports and growth in the debtor nations. Baker told the committee that such an approach could "worsen their difficulties unless the new financing can be productively absorbed and is consistent with their ability to grow and service debt." He said that the debt initiative that bears his name is a long-term approach and that further progress "will be gradual and will vary among nations, depending upon their own determination to implement growth-oriented reforms and the continued active support of the international community." Reuter 
U.S. SENATE TRADE LEADER CONCERNED ABOUT CANADA

The chairman of the U.S. Senate committee with jurisdiction over trade said he was concerned about a resolution on bilateral trade negotiations adopted by the Canadian House of Commons last week. The resolution supports negotiation of a bilateral trading agreement with the United States while protecting Canadian political sovereignty, social programs, agricultural marketing systems, the auto industry and Canada's cultural identity. Senate Finance Committee chairman Lloyd Bentsen said the resolution may jeopardize the viability of the proposed free trade agreement between the two countries, which are each other's largest trading partners. "We need a truly free trade agreement, which means both countries have to work toward a deal that is mutually beneficial and comprehensive, a large agreement," the Texas Democrat said in a statement. "I do not question Canada's right to protect its political sovereignty or cultural identity. However, if these phrases mean the government of Canada means to take important economic issues off the table in these negotiations, I am deeply concerned," he added. Bentsen said Canada restricts trade 15 different ways while the United States uses only six trade restriction methods. He said if Canada proposes an agreement where both countries get rid of six methods of trade restriction, it would not be fair and might not win Senate approval. "I am deeply concerned that when the President visits Prime Minister (Brian) Mulroney next month, he will be presented with this kind of argument, and I hope he makes it clear -- as I did when I was in Canada -- that only a mutually beneficial agreement will be successful," Bentsen said. Reagan and Mulroney are scheduled to meet April 5-6 in Ottawa. Bentsen urged Mulroney to withdraw a proposal that would ban imports of independently produced films into Canada by non-Canadians, which the senator called a protectionist measure. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS NEW MONEY NOT DEBT PANACEA

Treasury Secretary James Baker said massive new lending to debtor nations could actually increase their difficulties in the period ahead without protections. In testimony before the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, Baker said, "throwing money at the debtor nations won't solve their problems." Baker told the committee such an approach could "worsen their difficulties unless the new financing can be productively absorbed and is consistent with their ability to grow and service debt." He said the debt initiative associated with his name is a long-term approach and further progress "will be gradual and will vary among nations, depending upon their own determination to implement growth-oriented reforms and on the continued active support of the international community." Reuter 
U.S. OFFERS MORE CREDITS FOR VEG OIL TO N. YEMEN

The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has authorized an additional 10.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to cover sales of U.S. vegetable oils to North Yemen, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department also said at the request of the North Yemen Government five mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of wheat have been switched to cover sales of mixed poultry feed. The actions increase the value of credit guarantees for vegetable oil for the current fiscal year to 38 mln dlrs, reduce the guarantee coverage for sales of wheat to eight mln dlrs and increase the coverage for sales of mixed poultry feed to 10 mln dlrs. All exports must be completed by September 30, 1987. Reuter 
U.S. SHOE <USR> TO OPEN 421 STORES IN 1987

U.S. Shoe Corp said it plans to open 421 stores and close 33 units in 1987, bringing the total number of its outlets to 2,655. Earlier the large retailer reported that its earnings dropped 61 pct to 25.5 mln dlrs for the year ended January 31. In the year earlier period it earned 64.9 mln dlrs. Sales rose four pct to 2.0 billion dlrs from 1.9 billion dlrs. U.S. Shoe cited severe merchandising problems in its key retail divisions and competition in its footwear divisions as some of the reasons for the earnings decline last year. U.S. Shoe also said it expects results for the first quarter to end May 31 will show an improvement over the 3.2 mln dlrs it earned in the year-ago quarter. It said that initial orders for spring were down "moderately," but reorder activity was "excellent" within its women's footwear divisions. The company said it "will continue to search for ways to make its footwear assets more productive and operations more efficient." It said it expects capital outlays in fiscal 1987 to exceed 165 mln dlrs, a 12 pct increase over 1986 levels. It said capital outlays to improve domestic productivity this year are planned to increase 50 pct over 1986 levels. The company also said it plans to increase its presence in Brazil and to start production in Hong Kong, which along with other overseas offices, will strenghten its overall import capability. Reuter 
CANADA MAY MONITOR STEEL SHIPMENTS

Canada may begin monitoring steel flowing in and out of the country to determine if any steel is being illegally "trans-shipped" to the U.S., senior government trade officials said. The officials, asking not to be identified, said the government will investigate an industry contention that steel imported from countries such as South Korea and Taiwan is being diverted to the U.S. and ultimately exasperating concerns about the level of Canadian exports south of the border. But the senior officials, asking not to be indentified, said that despite intense pressure from the Reagan Administration, Ottawa was not considering any kind of formal limits on Canadian shipments to the U.S. "In a sense what I hope we are doing is buying some time," said one official who claimed Canadian companies were "fair traders" in the big American market. If approved by the Canadian cabinet, the officials said a monitoring system will be established in the next three or four months. "I guess if we find trans-shipment is a problem, we would have to do something about it," said a trade official. Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pct of the U.S. market in recent months, almost double the level just two years ago. The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time of growing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports from several countries in the face of a decline among domestic steel producers. Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada's share of the American market be limited to 2.4 per cent. The Ontario Government has urged Ottawa to require foreign companies to obtain permits to import steel into the country. Currently, import licences are required only for carbon or raw steel, which makes up less than half the steel market. Canada exported two billion Canadian dlrs worth of steel in 1986, while importing 944-mln dlrs worth of the product in the same year. Reuter 
MEXICO SIGNS 100 MLN DLR IADB TOURISM LOAN

Mexican officials, led by Finance Minister Gustavo Petricioli, signed a 100 mln dlr loan with the Inter-American Development Bank to help finance the promotion of foreign tourism. The loan is for 15 years with 4-1/2 years grace at a variable interest rate. The IADB has approved previous loans totaling 207.5 mln dlrs to help finance investments of some 580 mln dlrs in Mexico's tourism sector. The total cost of the program announced today is about 334 mln dlrs, of which the IADB loan will cover 29.9 pct. Reuter 
MONARCH CAPITAL <MON PR> WILL NOT RESUME TRADING

The New York Stock Exchange said Monarch Capital Corp Pfd will not resume trading today. Reuter 
SHELL OIL GETS 104.3 MLN DLR CONTRACT

Shell Oil Co of Houston has been awarded a 104.3 mln dlr contract for jet fuel, the Defense Logistics Agency said. REUTER 
TEXACO <TX> RESERVES DOWN DESPITE LOWER OUTPUT

Texaco Inc's oil and gas reserves declined in 1986 despite reduced production and upward revisions in the company's previous reserve estimates, its annual report said. The statement of the report's auditor was qualified -- as was the previous one -- because of the unkonwn final impact of the judgement won by Pennzoil Co <PZL> against Texaco on charges Texaco interfered with Pannzoil's contract to acquire Getty Oil Co. The auditor's point out, as Texaco has in the past, the company's loss of any of several pending court decisions in this case could cause it "to face prospects such as having to seek protection of its assets and business pursuant to the bankruptcy and reorganization provisions of Chapter 11" of the federal bankruptcy code. Commenting on a Texas Court of Appeals ruling which reduced Pennzoil's judgement by two billion dlrs, to 9.1 billion dlrs, Texaco said it will file a motion for a rehearing by the appeals court no later than March 30. Texaco said the proven crude oil reserves of the company and its consolidated subsidiaries totaled 2.54 billion barrels at the end of 1986, down from 2.69 billion a year earlier. However, inclusion of Texaco's equity in the Eastern Hemisphere reserves of a nonsubsidiary company limited the decline to 2.91 billion barrels from 3.00 billion at the end of 1985. Worldwide production by the consolidated subsidiaries declined to 341 mln barrels last year from 362 mln in 1985 and upward revisions in previous reserve estimates rose to 143 mln barrels from 117 mln, respectively. Texaco said the largest drop in reserves came in the United States -- where the total dropped to 1.46 billion barrels from 1.55 billion. The company said U.S. liquids production averaged 660,000 barrels per day last year, down from 714,000 in 1985, with about 44 pct of the decline -- some 24,000 barrels per day -- representing high-cost production shut-in or curtailed in response to the decline in crude oil prices during 1986. Texaco said its natural gas reserves totaled 8.16 trillion cubic feet at year end, down from 8.87 trillion cubic feet at the end of 1985. Reuter 
INT'L MINERALS PROJECT TO BOOST HOG LEAN WEIGHT

International Minerals and Chemical Corp said its board approved a 50 mln dlrs budget over the next several years to build production facilities for a newly developed product to be used to improve the lean weight of hogs. The new product, porcine somatotropin (PST) is described as a natural bio-synthetic protein that improves the lean weight and rate of weight gain, as well as reduces the cost of feed for market hogs, the company said. Specific details of the PST production project, including sites for proposed facilities and engineering plans, were not disclosed. International Minerals said it set a completion target for the spring of 1989, by which time necessary Food and Drug Administration approvals are expected to be obtained. Reuter 
BOLIVIAN DEBT BUYBACK PLAN SAID GAINING GROUND

Bolivia's proposal to repurchase at a deep discount the 900 mln dlrs it owes to foreign commercial banks is likely to be accepted, bolivian central bank governor Javier Nogales Iturri said. Speaking to reporters at the annual meeting of the Inter- American Development Bank, Nogales said Bolivia's bank advisory committee, led by Bank of America, is seeking permission from creditor banks worldwide to go ahead with the scheme. More than 50 pct of the banks must approve, and Nogales said he is confident this threshold will be reached. "It's working out very well, and I think we'll get a clear majority," Nogales said. A senior banker working on the deal also said that banks are responding positively and said all the legal waivers necessary could be obtained within two months. Bolivia halted all payments on its commercial bank debt in March 1984. Hyperinfltion has been curbed and public spending trimmed, but the country's debt still trades as low as 10 cts on the dollar on the secondary market, and many banks have written off most, if not all, of their loans to the country. Few bankers see little chance for a subtantive recovery in Bolivia's economic fortunes and so are willing to collect what they can on the loans. Nogales said Bolivia would offer to buy back the debt at a market price. He said some banks might want to hold out for a higher price, but others would see the repurchase offer as an opportunity to cut their losses. Bolivia intends to pay for the repurchase with aid that foreign goernments, especially the United States and West Germany, are providing to help finance the eradication of coca crops. Cocaine, although illegal, is Bolivia's largest export. The campaign to persuade farmers to grow legal crops instead of coca would be financed instead using local currency, Nogales said. Because the fiscal deficit has been reduced to some four pct of gross domestic product, money supply could be increased to pay for the drug-eradication drive without too much of n impact on inflation, he added. Nogales said he does not expect Bolivia's debt repurchase to become a model for other debtors in dire straits. "We're not seeking a universal solution," he said." Reuter 
BRAZIL WANTS TO INCREASE STEEL EXPORTS TO U.S.

Brazil wants to increase its steel exports to the United States, now limited because of tough import restraints set in 1984 by the Reagan administration, a spokeswoman for the Brazilian Steel Institute (IBS) said. Brazilian and U.S. Trade officials held the first of a three-day meeting today in Brasilia to discuss the issue. In 1984, after three months of painstaking negotiations, the U.S. Government reached accords with seven steel-exporting nations - Australia, Brazil, Japan, Mexico, Spain, South Africa and South Korea - to reduce their shipments to the United States by about 30 pct in 1985. The 1984 restraints established that for 1987 Brazil's steel exports to the U.S. Could not exceed 632,000 tonnes, increasing to 640,000 tonnes in 1988 and 670,000 tonnes in 1989, the last of the five-year deadline set by the agreements. Brazilian officials are trying to increase Brazil's export share of non-flat products to the U.S. Market. The spokeswoman said there were reports of domestic supply problems in the United States. Reuter 
U.S. BUDGET DIRECTOR WARNS AGAINST TAX INCREASE

The director of the Office of Management and Budget James Miller warned that a tax increase would jeapordise real U.S. economic growth. "It's a bad idea. We don't need more money to balance the budget. We need to reduce spending and avoid things that would halt economic expansion," Miller told students at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. "I think economic growth could be threatened mightily if we have a tax increase or by the perception that we're giving up on deficit reduction," he said. Miller criticised a proposal by House speaker Jim Wright to put a one pct tax on securities transactions. He said the tax would probably be ineffective because people would avoid by holding their portfolios in other instruments, like real estate, or simply by not trading as often. Miller said he doubted this proposal would pass. "I think it is frankly all but political suicide to advocate a tax increase unless the president championed it as well," he said. "And he's not going to do it, in fact he would veto a tax increase," Miller added. Reuter 
BALDRIGE SEES U.S. TRADE GAP DROPPING SOON

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said the U.S. trade deficit should start to decline soon, possibly in the figures for February or March. "We could see the trade deficit start down in February or March," Baldrige said in an appearance before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. He predicted the trade deficit, which was 170 billion dlrs in 1986, would decline by 30 to 40 billion dlrs in 1987 and in 1988. Baldrige said he was making his prediction without having seen the February trade figures, but he said that the volume of imports has dropped beginning with the fourth quarter of 1986 and will continue to drop in this quarter. The eventual turnaround in the monthly trade figures will reflect the impact of the decline in the dollar, Baldrige said. Ealier, Treasury Secretary James Baker told the committee that the trade deficit had levelled off, but Baldrige said he was more optimistic, adding, "I think we turned the corner in February." Reuter 
U.S. HOME RESALES UP IN FEBRUARY, REALTORS SAY

The National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes rose six pct during February from January levels to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.69 mln units. The realtors' group said the sales rise was apparent across the country and reflected lower mortgage interest rates as well as more housing demand. Actual resales of homes during February totaled 241,000, up 11.6 pct from the January total of 216,000, the association said. Reuter 
LOWER U.S. SOYBEAN LOAN IDEA SHARPLY CRITICIZED

U.S. soybean lobbyists and congressional aides criticized a proposal from a senior Agriculture Department official that Congress allow the U.S. soybean loan level to be officially lowered to 4.56 dlrs per bushel next year. "I don't know who in Congress would propose that happening. Politically it would be totally unacceptable," an aide to a senior farm-state senator said. USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said this week that Congress should give USDA authority to keep the soybean loan at its current effective rate of 4.56 dlrs per bushel rather than increasing it to its minimum allowed level of 4.77 dlrs. "I'm convinced that Congress will not go along with this," American Soybean Association President Dave Haggard said. Amstutz told reporters following a senate hearing that if the soybean loan rate were 4.56 dlrs, USDA could then consider ways to make U.S. soybeans more competitive. His comments were seen as possibly indicating what the the administration's position is in the debate over what should be done to make soybeans competitive and at the same time protect soybean farmers' income. Using soybean specific certificates to further buydown the loan rate or implementation of a marketing loan have been pointed to as the most effective ways to get soybean prices competitive. USDA secretary Richard Lyng, however, continues to maintain his opposition to a marketing loan, saying such a move would be too costly. "There will be alot of other options that will be considered before Congress looks at that one (the Amstutz proposal," said Bill O'Conner, aide to Rep. Edward Madigan (R-Ill), ranking minority leader of the Agriculture Committee. "Anybody representing large groups of soybean producers would not be very excited about supporting a lower soybean loan," O'Conner said. Congress may very likely look at the soybean loan and decide that they cannot increase it from its current 5.02 dlr basic rate, but that there has to be something mandated to increase soybean's competitiveness, David Graves, aide to Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss) said. Cochran, a staunch supporter of a soybean marketing loan, would support a soybean loan of 5.02 or 4.77 dlrs with a certificate buydown, Graves said. Reuter 
LITTLE SUPPORT FOR MANDATORY ACREAGE CUTS - LYNG

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said he believes proposed legislation calling for mandatory acreage reductions has little support in Congress and voiced Reagan administration opposition to it. "The administration would be very much opposed to that legislation," he told a Virginia Farm Bureau lunch. "But fortunately I don't detect a strong interest in that legislation." He added, "I doubt there will be (enough) support to get it out." The controversial bill, supported by Representative Richard Gephardt, a Missouri Democrat, calls for a national referendum to be conducted that could result in mandatory unpaid acreage cuts of up to 35 pct, paid land diversion beyond that level if necessary and a marketing quota. Reuter 
BOLIVIAN DEBT BUYBACK PLAN GAINS GROUND

Bolivia's proposal to repurchase at a deep discount the 900 mln dlrs it owes to foreign commercial banks is likely to be accepted, central bank governor Javier Nogales Iturri said. Speaking to reporters at the annual meeting of the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) here, Nogales said Bolivia's bank advisory committee, led by Bank of America, is seeking permission from creditor banks worldwide to go ahead with the scheme. More than 50 pct of the banks must give their approval, and Nogales said he is confident that this threshold will be reached. "It's working out very well, and I think we'll get clear majority," Nogales said. A senior banker working on the deal also said that banks are responding positively and said all the legal waivers necessary could be obtained within two months. Bolivia halted all payments on its commercial bank debt in March 1984. Hyperinflation has been curbed and public spending trimmed, but its debt is still trading as low as 10 cts on the dollar on the secondary market and many banks have written off most, if not all, of their loans to the country. Bankers see little chance for a substantive recovery in Bolivia's economic fortunes and so are willing to collect what they can on the loans. Nogales said Bolivia would offer to buy back the debt at a market price. He said some banks might want to hold out for a higher price, but others would see the repurchase offer as a window of opportunity to cut their losses. Bolivia intends to pay for the repurchase with aid that foreign governments, especially the United States and West Germany, are providing to help finance the eradication of coca crops. Cocaine, although illegal, is Bolivia's largest export. The campaign to persuade farmers to grow legal crops instead of coca would be financed instead using local currency, Nogales said. Because the fiscal deficit has been reduced to some four pct of gross domestic product, money supply could be increased to pay for the drug-eradication drive without too much of n impact on inflation, he added. Nogales said he did not expect Bolivia's debt repurchase to become a model for other debtors in dire straits. "We're not seeking a universal solution," he said." Reuter 
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 0.1 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 0.1 pct in the four weeks ended March 20 to 16.16 mln barrels per day from 16.15 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was off 0.1 pct in the period to 3.258 mln bpd from 3.260 mln a year earlier. Gasoline demand averaged 6.72 mln bpd, off 1.2 pct from 6.80 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.38 mln bpd, off 2.1 pct from 1.41 mln, the EIA said. Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.35 mln bpd, down 7.8 pct from 9.06 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.44 mln bpd, up 16.3 pct from 2.95 mln, the EIA said. Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 11.90 mln bpd, up 1.4 pct from 11.74 mln a year earlier, it said. In the first 78 days of the year, refinery runs were up 1.8 pct to an average 12.25 mln bpd from 12.04 mln in the year-ago period, the EIA said. Year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged 16.32 mln bpd, up 1.8 pct from 16.04 mln in 1986, it said. So far this year, distillate demand rose 0.1 pct to 3.31 mln bpd from 3.30 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.60 mln bpd, up 0.1 pct from 6.59 mln, and residual fuel demand fell 0.4 pct to 1.42 mln bpd from 1.43 mln, the EIA said. Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.41 mln bpd, off 7.7 pct from 9.11 mln a year ago, while gross crude imports averaged 3.96 mln bpd, up 28.1 pct from 3.09 mln, it said. Reuter 
S/P DOWNGRADES SIX U.S. MONEY CENTER BANKS

Standard and Poor's Corp said it downgraded six U.S. money center bank holding companies, affecting about 13.3 billion dlrs of debt securities. They are Chase Manhattan Corp <CMB>, Chemical New York Corp <CHL>, Irving Bank Corp <V>, Manufacturers Hanover Corp <MHC>, Mellon Financial Corp <MEL> and Security Pacific Corp <SPC>. S and P said the action on Chase, Chemical, Irving and Manufacturers primarily reflected continued vulnerability to lesser developed countries and median financial performance. Standard and Poor's said its downgrade of Chemical also reflected that holding company's acquisition of Texas Commerce Bancshares <TCB>, which was just now approved by the Federal Reserve. For Mellon and Security Pacific, S and P cited higher non-performing assets and weaker operating earnings. The rating agency said it completed a review, based on 1986 results, of the largest U.S. bank holding companies. It paid special attention to reassessing the effect of exposures to lesser developed countries on the holding companies' earnings and capital. "Brazil's unilateral moratorium on debt service payments underscored the potential for polarization between bankers and debtor countries," S and P said. S and P noted that while Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela each face unique economic problems, the lack of progress toward moderating their debt service burdens has been disappointing. However, the agency pointed out that a substantive improvement in the large banks' financial positions has acted as a counter-balance to the Latin American debt situation. Citing increasing financial strength, S and P said it affirmed the debt ratings of Citicorp <CCI>, Bankers Trust New York Corp <BT>, Bank of Boston Corp <BKB> and J.P. Morgan and Co Inc <JPM>. S and P noted that most U.S. bank holding companies have what it termed easily realizable capital resources available to them, such as undervalued real estate, appreciated portfolio securities and overfunded pension plans. "Most bank managements appear committed to improving the quality of their balance sheets," S and P said, noting many now emphasize long-term strategies over short-term earnings. Standard and Poor's reduced Chase Manhattan's senior debt to AA-minus from AA, subordinated debt to A-plus from AA-minus and preferred stock to A from A-plus. The commercial paper of the parent and its unit Chase Manhattan Bank of Canada were affirmed at A-1-plus. Chase has 3.2 billion dlrs of debt outstanding. It has 6.4 billion dlrs of loans to Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela - one of the highest exposures to lesser developed countries among U.S. money centers. Chase's underlying profitability remains at median levels because of its high expense structure, S and P said. S and P cut Chemical's and the unit Chemical New York N.V.'s senior debt to AA-minus from AA and subordinated debt to A-plus from AA-minus. About 1.2 billion dlrs of long-term debt was affected. The agency cited Chemical's relatively large exposure to Latin American borrowers, particulary Brazil and Mexico, continued high levels of nonperforming assets and the pending acquisition of Texas Commerce. Aggregate exposure to Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela was almost four billion dlrs at year-end 1986, or 105 pct of equity and reserves, S and P pointed out. Irving's senior debt was reduced to A-plus from AA-minus, with subordinated debt and preferred stock lowered to A from A-plus. Its commercial paper was affirmed at A-111-1plus. Irving has about 500 mln dlrs of debt outstanding. Its approximately 1.4 billion dlrs of loans to the four major Latin debtor countries account for 110 pct of year-end equity and reserves. S and P downgraded Manufacturers Hanover's senior debt to A from A-plus, subordinated debt to A-minus from A and preferred stock to BBB-plus from A-minus but affirmed its A-1 commercial paper. The bank has 3.8 billion dlrs of debt. S and P noted that Manufacturers has about 6.7 billion dlrs of loans to the major Latin debtor nations and has experienced weak earnings. However, the unit CIT Group Holdings Inc's AA-minus senior debt and A-1-plus commercial paper were affirmed. The rating agency cut Mellon's senior debt to A-plus from AA and preferred stock to A from AA-minus. It has 1.1 billion dlrs of debt securities. The commercial paper programs of Mellon Bank Canada and Mellon Australia Ltd, guaranteed by the parent company, were lowered to A-1 from A-1-plus. S and P cited continued lower operating earnings and rising nonperforming assets and charge-offs for Mellon. Security Pacific's 1.7 billion dlrs of debt was downgraded. Cut were its senior debt to AA from AA-plus, and subordinated debt and preferred stock to AA-minus from AA. Security Pacific Overseas Finance N.V.'s debt issues were reduced to AA from AA-plus. Affirmed were the parent's A-1-plus commercial paper and the BBB-rated debt of the unit Security Pacific Financial Systems. These actions reflected Security Pacific's continued high levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs, S and P said. Reuter 
UNOCAL <UCL> PLANS INCREASE IN CAPITAL SPENDING

Unocal Corp said it intends to increase its spending for capital projects to 929 mln dlrs in 1987, eight pct more than the 862 mln spent in 1986. The company said in its annual report that it would increase spending for exploration and development of petroleum resources by about three pct to 614 mln dlrs from 1986's 595 mln dlrs, assuming oil prices hold around current levels. The planned spending for exploration and production in 1987 remains well below the 1.1 billion dlrs spent in 1985, Unocal said. The company's proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil rose slightly in 1986, Unocal said. Net crude oil and condensate reserves were 752 mln bbls as of Dec 31, 1986, compared to 751 mln bbls at the end of 1985, Unocal said. The company said its net crude oil and condensate production averaged 248,200 barrels per day in 1986 compared to 251,300 bpd in 1985. Unocal said its worldwide natural gas reserves were 6.07 billion cubic feet in 1986 compared to 1985's 6.19 billion. Net natural gas output averaged 976 mln cubic feet per day in 1986, down 10 pct from 1985's 1,084 mln, the company said. Unocal said its average sales prices for crude oil was 12.67 dlrs a barrel worldwide in 1986 compared to 23.81 dlrs in 1985, and its average sales price for natural gas was 2.03 dlrs per thousand cubic feet in 1986 against 2.24 dlrs in 1985. Average production costs for crude oil and natural gas declined nearly 30 pct to 3.41 dlrs per bbl of oil equivalent in 1986 from 4.81 dlrs in 1985, Unocal said. In the annual report, the company called for imposition of an oil import fee by the U.S. government to set a floor price of about 25 dlrs a barrel for crude oil. "Simply stabilizing prices at about 18 dlrs per barrel will not materialy slow the drop in U.S. production or the rise in imports," Chairman Fred Hartley said in the annual report. "Without decisive action in Washington, this nation will once again become a hostage to OPEC's plans and policies," Hartley said. Reuter 
ECUADOR SIGNS 280 MLN DLR IADB LOAN

Ecuador signed four loans from the InterAmerican Development Bank (IADB) totaling 280 mln dlrs, the IADB said. Ecuador's finance minister, Domingo Cordovez, and IADB President Antonio Ortiz Mena, signed the loans after the IADB's annual meeting here. A 57 mln dlr loan is for urban development, 80 mln dlrs for industrial programs, 96 mln dlrs for highway rehabilitation and 46 mln for farm research. Reuter 
PERU'S DEBT OBLIGATIONS HIT 6.3 BILLION DLRS IN 1987

Peru's foreign debt obligation this year totaled 6.3 billion dlrs, including maturities falling due and overdue payments, equivalent to almost twice its expected exports of goods and services, Central Bank President Leonel Figueroa said. He told the InterAmerican Development Bank (IADB) annual meeting here that Peru will have to maintain its 10 pct limit on debt payments to preserve growth. Figueroa said gdp grew by almost nine pct in 1986, while inflation dropped to 63 pct from an annual rate of 280 pct in the first half of 1985. Reuter 
PENNZOIL (PZL) WILLING TO SETTLE TEXACO (TX) LAWSUIT

Pennzoil Co said it had not yet received any "meaningful settlement offer" from Texaco Inc but added that the company remained willing to consider proposals to settle the 10.2 billion dlr jury judgment it won against Texaco. In its newly-released annual report to shareholders, Pennzoil said it expected the Texas state court judgment, which was upheld by a state appeals court on February 12, to be upheld if appealed again. "To date, Pennzoil has yet to receive any meaningful settlement offer from Texaco, though it remains open to any realistic effort to settle the matter," Pennzoil chairman Hugh Liedtke said in the annual report. Pennzoil also said it had budgeted 212 mln dlrs for capital spending in 1987, a drop from the 233 mln dlrs spent last year. Proved U.S. and foreign reserves of natural gas declined to 964 billion cubic feet last year, from 1.01 trillion cubic feet in 1985, because of a virtual halt in its exploration program, Pennzoil said. Its crude oil reserves dropped to 140 mln barrels from 158 mln barrels in 1985. The Houston-based company said it sold an average of 339 mln cubic feet of domestic natural gas each day last year, a 17 pct drop from 1985. The average sales price for gas dropped by 60 cents per mcf to 2.16 dlrs per mcf, Pennzoil said. U.S. crude oil and gas liquids production last year fell to an average of 33,290 barrels per day from 34,102 barrels per day in 1985. The company's total revenues in 1986 declined to 482.3 mln dlrs, from 762.5 mln dlrs the previous year. Operating income in 1986 fell more than 80 pct, to 38.0 mln dlrs. Pennzoil said its goals for 1987 included development of its Point Arguello oilfield off the California coast, to maintain current production levels in its Bluebell-Altamont Field in Utah and to drill for prospects in the Gulf of Mexico's Mobile Bay area. "Production should begin late in the year from the Harvest Platform in the Santa Maria Basin offshore California," the company said. "Pennzoil's share of this production initially should be five thousand barrels a day, increasing to a peak of 15 thousand barrels a day, net, by 1989." In its sulphur business, Pennzoil said production totaled 2.1 mln long tons last year, a decline of 18 pct from 1985. The average sales price also declined, to 138.25 dlrs per long ton from 141.05 dlrs in 1985. "The long term outlook for our sulphur operations remains bright," the company said. "We expect sulphur's pricing structure to strengthen during the current year, probably in the third and fourth quarters." Reuter 
COLOMBIA TO MAINTAIN FOREIGN BORROWING LEVELS

Colombia plans to maintain foreign borrowing at levels similar to the 1982-86 period, during which it received a net 1.3 billion dlrs net of repayments, Finance Minister Cesar Gaviria said. He told the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) annual meeting here that despite Latin America's debt crisis, Colombia continues to achieve positive credit flows reflecting the strength of its economy that grew five pct last year. Public Credit Director Mauricio Cabrera said Colombia plans to launch a foreign bond issue in the second half of 1987, possibly for 60 mln dlrs. Cabrera said a 50 mln dlr floating rate note (FRN) issue by Colombia is expected to close next month. It carries a 1-1/8 pct margin over Libor, with a seven year maturity and four years grace. He also told Reuters he did not expect any increase in Colombia's financing needs as a result of current falling coffee prices, after a surge last year doubled export income from this source to around three billion dlrs. "The drop will simply bring us back to 1985 levels, with a loss of no more than about 100 mln dlrs," he said. Colombia, with a total foreign debt of around 13 billion dlrs, has a foreign borrowing programme of around three billion dlrs this year, of which about one billion is new credits. Its foreign reserves ended 1986 at 3.5 billion dlrs, equivalent to more than nine months of imports and non-financial services, and GDP growth is again expected to reach five pct this year, Gaviria said. Reuter 
EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL

The House Banking Committee adopted legislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to begin negotiations aimed at seeking regular adjustment of exchange rates by countries such as Taiwan and South Korea, whose currencies are pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar. The measure was adopted as part of a wide-ranging trade bill that will be considered by the full House in April before it moves on to the Senate. The bill's many provisions also set as a priority for the U.S. the negotiation of stable exchange rates and urge government intervention as necessary to offset fluctuations. In addition, the Banking Committee bill would authorize U.S. banks to use a variety of means to deal with the debt problems of developing countries, such as lowering interest rates on existing debt, renegotiating loans or debt forgiveness. The bill would give a blanket waiver of any federal banking regulations that bar such actions. The bill would direct Treasury Secretary James Baker to discuss with debt-ridden developing countries the possibility of the U.S. setting up a public debt management agency that would purchase their debt at a discount and negotiate the restructuring of the debt. The Banking bill authorizes U.S. participation in a multilateral investment guarantee agency (MIGA) as requested by the administration. Congress would approve an initial U.S. subscription of 22 mln dlrs. And, it sets up a council on industrial competitiveness composed of industry and administration members to explore ways to make the U.S. more competitive in world markets. Reuter 
WORLD BANK AFFILIATE PROVIDES CREDIT FOR HAITI

The World Bank today approved a 40 million mln dlr loan to assist an economic reform program under way in Haiti. The bank said the loan is being made through its affiliate, the International Development Association, and will be used to restore economic confidence, approve the allocation of resources, and stimulate economic growth. The bank said the the 50-year credit, which is interest free, comes as there is growing evidence that reforms already underway have improved the country's economic situation. REUTER 
U.S. AGRICULTURE SECY DOUBTFUL ON DEFICIT GOAL

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng today publicly expressed doubts that the federal government would meet the fiscal year 1988 deficit reduction target set by the Gramm-Rudman law. "I don't think anyone believes we'll meet the 108 billion dlr target," Lyng told the Virginia Farm Bureau. Lyng is believed to be the first top administration official to publicly express doubts the target would be met. The remark was quickly disavowed by the White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB). "His 'no one' does not include the OMB," said spokesman Edwin Dale. Lyng made the remark while describing the need for the agriculture sector to share the burden of cutbacks under last year's Gramm-Rudman law. "There needs to be some reduction of some expenditures to at least get close to the Gramm-Rudman figure," he said. "Agriculture would not be independent from that." Lyng's special assistant, Floyd Gabler, said the remark was an opinion based on Lyng's discussions with congressmen. "If the Secretary said that he's simply expressing an opinion he's gotten from the progress or lack of progress on the Hill," he said. Reuter 
COST OF PIK CERTIFICATES TO BE EYED BY CONGRESS

Congress, eager to find budget savings, launches a review of the U.S. Agriculture Department's generic commodity certificate program tomorrow, amid signs USDA and the General Accounting Office, GAO, are at odds over how much the program has cost U.S. taxpayers. The GAO concluded in a preliminary report last week that payment-in-kind, or PIK, certificates cost between five and 20 pct more than cash outlays, administration officials who asked not to be identified said. USDA officials, however, took issue with the report, saying it did not take into account storage, handling and transport savings that accrue to the government. The GAO then decided to re-examine the costs, sources said. The issue is an important one, because congressional budget committees are known to be considering limiting the use of certificates as a means of cutting spending. Agriculture Under Secretary Daniel Amstutz and GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley are set to testify before the Senate Agriculture Committee tomorrow. Amstutz is expected to tell the committee that there are uncertainties in determining the cost of certificates compared to cash outlays, and that savings to the Commodity Credit Corp, CCC, almost equal costs, department sources said. USDA estimates that it costs the government about 75 cents to store, handle and transport each bushel of commodity put in government storage. It was unclear whether the GAO, Congress' investigative arm, would stick by its original analysis that it costs the government more to use certificates instead of cash in farm price and income support programs, Reagan administration sources said. The GAO is expected to point out that use of payment-in-kind, PIK, certificates has helped relieve tight storage by moving grain that otherwise might not have been sold. The testimony by Amstutz and GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley comes as congressional budget committees intensify their efforts to pinpoint ways to cut the federal budget deficit -- including considering limits on the use of PIK certificates. The CCC issues dollar-denominated PIK certificates, or certs, as a partial substitute for direct cash outlays to farmers or cash subsidies to exporters. Certs can be used to repay nonrecourse loans or exchanged for CCC commodities or cash. Between April and December 1986, CCC issued 3.8 billion dlrs worth of certificates, according to USDA. Up to another 6.7 billion dlrs worth could be issued between January and August 1987, according to USDA. Certs can cost the government more than cash primarily because recipients can use the certificates to pay back government loans at levels below the loan rate. Eliminating this practice, called "PIK and roll," would save the government 1.4 billion dlrs between 1988-92, according to the Congressional Budget Office, CBO. That estimate, according to a CBO official, was based on an assumption that certificates cost the government about 15 pct more than cash payments. The Senate and House Budget Committees are known to be considering curbs on PIK-and-roll transactions among other savings alternatives. The GAO last week reached the tentative conclusion that the estimated three billion dlrs of certificates redeemed to date have cost the federal government between 150 mln and 600 mln dlrs, or between five and 20 pct, more than cash outlays, one administration official said. However, the GAO has decided to reassess those estimates based in part on USDA criticism, department officials said. The broad range of the cost estimate is partly attributable to the different effect certificates can have on market prices over the course of a crop year. USDA's Economic Research Service, for example, has found that between June and August last year, the 215 mln bushels of corn exchanged for certificates lowered the price of corn by between 35 and 45 cents per bushel. Between September and November, however, certificates had only a marginal impact on corn prices, according to the ERS study, obtained by Reuters. Reuter 
IADB MEETING ENDS WITH U.S. ISOLATED ON REFORM

The United States remained isolated among the Inter-American Development Bank's 44 members as the Bank ended its annual meeting here today without agreement on U.S. proposals to reform the regional lending institution. The three-day meeting was dominated by the dispute and by the failure of Brazil and its creditor banks to make any breakthrough on debt talks after Brasilia suspended interest payments last month. Brazil's Central Bank governor Francisco Gros said after talks with its 14-bank advisory committee here yesterday that it could not make a token interest payment now, as sought by banks, but would maintain contact with the banks. Delegates agreed to shelve discussion of IADB reforms until the half-yearly International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings in two weeks time in Washington at which a decision will be urgently sought in order to maintain credit flows to the recession-hit region. "The Bank cannot maintain an adequate lending level unless it is given increased resources," IADB president Antonio Ortiz Mena told a press conference. Ortiz Mena said 42 countries opposed Washington's proposal to lower veto power over loans to 35 pct of the Bank's voting shares from a simple majority as at present. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said Monday the United States, as 34.5 pct shareholder and provider of the bulk of the Bank's resources, should have more say in approving loans and conditioned a nine billion dlr increase in its contribution on approving the reforms. But Ortiz Mena said Latin America and the non-regional members including Europe and Japan had all supported a 40 pct veto level. Canada declined to state a position. Behind the dispute was a U.S. attempt to radically change the direction of the Bank, which has lent 35 billion dlrs to Latin America in its 28 years, and give it a bigger role in the current debt strategy with increased lending but more stringent conditions attached. But Ortiz said the Bank cannot divert too much of its resources to so-called sectoral lending, whereby loans to specific sectors are tied to economic reforms, because this could affect the Bank's Triple A rating as a borrower in world markets. "For this reason we have agreed to limit sectoral loans to 25 pct of the total, leaving the rest for investment in projects," he said. Ortiz Mena earlier told the Bank's closing session that as a result of negotiations here, the Bank can expect a new injection of about 25 billion dlrs for the period 1987-90. The United States has said it will only be able to support a level close to the sixth replenishment of funds, which came to 15.7 billion dlrs, unless its proposals are accepted. But despite the impasse, some Latin American delegates including Mexican Finance Minister Gustavo Petricioli said they were optimistic a compromise agreement could be reached next month. Reuter 
EXCHANGE RATE BILL CLEARS U.S. HOUSE PANEL

The House Banking Committee adopted legislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to begin negotiations aimed at seeking regular adjustment of exchange rates by countries such as Taiwan and South Korea whose currencies are pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar. The measure was adopted as part of a wide-ranging trade bill that will be considered by the full House in April before it moves onto the Senate. The bill's many provisions also set as a priority for the U.S. the negotiation of stable exchange rates and urge government intervention as necessary to offset fluctuations. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS CURRENCY AGREEMENT

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he stood by the Paris agreement among leading industrial nations to foster exchange rate stability around current levels. "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which was a recognition the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals," Baker told The Cable News Network in an interview. "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Paris otherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said. Baker also noted the nations agreed in the accord to "co-operate to foster greater exchange rate stability around those levels." He refused to comment directly on the current yen/dollar rate but said flatly that foreign exchange markets recently tended "to draw unwarranted inferences from what I say." Baker was quoted on British Television over the weekend as saying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a statement that triggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar. "I think the Paris agreement represents evidence that international economic policy co-ordination is alive and well," Baker said. The Treasury Secretary stressed however it was very important for the main surplus countries to grow as fast as they could consistent with low inflation to resolve trade imbalances. He added that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker has also "been very outspoken" in suggesting main trading partners grow as fast as they can. Baker noted that the J-curve, the delayed beneficial effect of a weakening of a currency on that country's trade balance, takes 12 to 18 months to work its way through to the trade deficit and it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollar's value. He also said improvements in the trade deficit should come from other sources besides the exchange rate, and pointed out the administration's package to improve U.S. Competitiveness was now before Congress. REUTER 
BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON VOLCKER REAPPOINTMENT

Treasury Secretary James Baker declined to comment on whether President Reagan would reappoint Paul Volcker to a third term as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. "I spent four years and two weeks in the White House job refusing to comment on personnel matters," he said in an interview with the Cable News Network. "I'm not going to change now." But Baker did say Volcker has "done a tremendous job" and added they get on "extremely well", both when he was White House chief of staff and during his term at Treasury. When asked whether he differed with Volcker on international economic policy, Baker said "there's really no difference of opinion between us with respect to these matters." In other comments, Baker said he did not think a tax rise was a good idea and nor did President Reagan. But he believed Congress would enact some spending cuts. "The minute you say raise taxes, all restraints on spending go by the board." He once again pointed out that taxes were 19 pct of gnp but spending was at 24 pct, a statistic he used to argue strongly for spending cuts. reuter 
GUYANA FINANCE MINISTER OPTIMISTIC BUT SEEKS HELP

Guyana hopes to overcome its financial problems within three to five years and is now seeking help from donor governments, Finance Minister Carl Greenidge said. He said Guyana took its problems in January to the Caribbean Group for Cooperation and Development, which includes governments and multilateral agencies, with a view to finding a long-term recovery plan. Guyana's arrears to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) are now 70 mln dlrs and it would not be eligible for new loans in the near future, Greenidge told Reuters during the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) annual meeting here. MORE Greenidge also said a World Bank mission would visit Georgetown this week to assess prospects for a rescue plan that would enable Guyana to revive its economy. But he said the government does not expect to be able to reduce its arrears this year. Arrears to the IMF and the World Bank are projected to rise to 100 mln dlrs by the end of 1987. About 90 mln dlrs of this, equivalent to nearly half Guyana's annual exports, would be owed to the IMF. "Expecting us to pay arrears is like asking a dying man to give a pint of blood," Greenidge said. But Greenidge said Guyana has taken steps to reduce its fiscal deficit, which now amounts to 65 pct of GDP. It has increased taxes, reduced public expenditure and refinanced its internal debt. He said the World Bank would meanwhile look at investment requirements for potential export-earning projects such as gold mining, timber, oil and kaolin. Because of its arrears, Guyana has been unable to draw down a 40 mln dlr World Bank loan for a bauxite industry rehabilitation project. Bauxite accounts for 90 mln dlrs of exports, or 40 pct of the total. REUTER 
BAKER OPPOSES STOCK TRANSACTION TAX PROPOSAL

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he opposed a stock transactions tax proposed by House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex, or other special taxes. "The stock transfer tax would be a particularly unfortunate approach to take," Baker said in an interview with Cable News Network. The United States has some of the most efficient capital markets in the world and new taxes would impair efficiency, he said. REUTER 
BAKER SEEKS MORE BANK LOANS TO DEVELOPING NATIONS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said banks must do more lending to developing countries. Baker, in an interview on Cable News Network, was asked about such loans after Standard and Poor's Corp today downgraded the debt of six major money centre bank holding companies, largely because of their heavy loan exposure to developing nations. Baker said developing countries must adopt free market economic policies such as that of the United States. He said capital flows will be required to support the needed reforms in those countries' economic systems. The money must come either through equity or debt and Baker said developing nations' "investment regimes do not support enough equity investment, so you've got to have some debt there." REUTER 
LIBYANS APPEAR TO BE PULLING OUT OF CHAD

Libyan forces appear to be withdrawing from their last stronghold in Chad after suffering defeats at the hands of French-backed government troops, according to officials in both the U.S. And France. In Washington, a State Department spokesman told reporters "we have no reason to doubt that Libyan forces are leaving Faya Largeau," Libya's main garrison in Chad. The French Defence Ministry said it could not confirm the departure of the Libyan troops, but an official said "it is extremely likely. They are deprived of air cover and supplies, and their morale must be zero." REUTER 
BAKER SEES 15 TO 20 BILLION DLR DROP IN TRADE GAP

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he expected the U.S. Trade deficit to fall by 15 billion to 20 billion dlrs in 1987. Commenting on the deficit during an interview on Cable News Network, Baker said "I think you're going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction this year." The deficit was 170 billion dlrs in 1986. Baker noted that the benefits of a weaker currency take 12 to 18 months to affect the trade balance, and said it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollar's value. REUTER 
DEMOCRAT LOSES BID TO WIN CONTRA AID ACCOUNTING

Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd yesterday failed to win the 60 votes needed to force a Senate vote on a bill demanding President Reagan account for U.S. Aid to the Nicaraguan Contras, including millions of dollars diverted to the rebels from U.S. Arms sales to Iran. Following the defeat, Byrd said he would drop his effort, ending congressional manoeuvring over the 40 million dlr final instalment of a 100-million-dlr aid package approved last year for the contras. Without congressional action to stop it, the aid became legally available to the Contras last weekend. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - HONG KONG'S MORE ACTIVE ROLE

Hong Kong's government has long kept intervention in the economy to a minimum in the belief that when it comes to business, businessmen generally know best. But the government is slowly being forced to take a more active economic role, partly to face the challenge from fast growing economies like South Korea and Taiwan and economic powerhouse Japan, businessmen said. The government announced this month it will spend six mln H.K. Dlrs over the next two years to encourage electronics firms to send engineers for training overseas. The engineers will learn design of application specific integrated circuits (ASIC) used in products ranging from personal computers to high-technology toys that talk. The government has funded vocational training before but this will be its first such program aimed at bringing back advanced technology from overseas. Government officials told Reuters that other areas in the electronics sector are being considered for similar treatment. Hong Kong's key electronics industry last year accounted for exports of 61 billion H.K. Dlrs, though the total includes sales of electrical machinery and other items. Officials said that this key sector, second only to textiles in terms of exports, needs high technologies already available in neighbouring economies if it is to compete. "Belatedly, we realize there are some technologies which can't be taught here," said K.Y. Yeung, Director of Industry. A study by U.S. Research firm Dataquest Inc last year showed that Hong Kong's share of U.S. Consumer electronic imports had fallen to 3.5 pct in 1985 from 6.4 pct in 1983. South Korea, Taiwan and Japan all take a more active role in guiding economic development and policy makers are worried that perhaps some assistance -- albeit limited -- is needed. "This is perceived to be an area of development for Hong Kong," said Lawrence Mills, director-general of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries. "Many industrialists think government should be more actively concerned with this area." Hong Kong likes to call its policy "positive non-intervention," meaning that it helps industry mainly by maintaining economic stability and ensuring that needed roads and harbour facilities are in place. It offers no special tax incentives for foreign investors, believing that its low corporate profits tax of 18 pct and personal income tax of 16.5 pct are sufficient. But the government has been forced to gradually take a more active role in the economy. In the last three years it has stepped in to aid seven problem banks, taking over three of them, to protect depositors whose funds were not insured. It has also expanded the powers of its banking and securities commissions to police these key economic sectors. Industry officials said manufacturers need help acquiring expensive new technology, especially when returns on investment are years away. "This is only a small start but it will help make this technology more readily available," said an engineer with a major U.S. Electronics firm in Hong Kong. Texas Instruments Inc <TXN> and Motorola Inc <MOT> of the U.S. And Japan's Toshiba Corp <TSBA.T> already conduct ASIC design work in Hong Kong, while a handful of firms have committed funds for capital-intensive production. Under the industry department program, companies would be funded to train engineers overseas but those employees would be required to apply their new skills locally for an as yet unspecified period. "We want to promote ASIC design and eventually production in Hong Kong," said Yeung of the Industry Department. Some industrialists said it will take more than a training program to keep electronics manufacturers competitive in the years ahead. Government officials said most manufacturers in the industry are small scale, employing fewer than 100 people. These firms will not be able to afford expensive technology development programs, industry officials said. The program has raised concerns that government may one day veer too far from its policy of minimal intervention. "They've reached the right decision," said Mills of the Federation of Industries. "But the fear (among some firms) is it might be a slippery slope towards interference." REUTER 
GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER

No action has been taken yet on the Reagan Adminstration's offer to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed, U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said. The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Iran's deployment of Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf. Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at Texas Christian University that he did not think Iran and the United States were moving towards a potential conflict, adding that the Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still "free water." REUTER 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL APPROVES 400 MLN DLRS FOREIGN AID

The House of Representatives Appropriations Committee yesterday approved 300 mln dlrs in economic aid for four Central American states, 50 mln dlrs to black-led states neighbouring South Africa and 50 mln dlrs in military assistance for the Philippines. The programmes, part of 1.3 billion dlr supplemental budget request by the Reagan administration to restore funds cut earlier by Congress, must be approved by Congress. The committee rejected the administration's request for 21.6 mln dlrs as the U.S. Contribution to U.N. Peace-keeping troops in Lebanon. The 300 mln dlrs will go to El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala and Costa Rica while another 12 mln dlrs was allocated to replace the earthquake-damaged U.S. Embassy in San Salvador. The 50 mln dlrs approved for a "Southern Africa" initiative is part of a larger programme promised by the Reagan administration last year when it tried unsuccessfully to block sanctions approved by Congress against South Africa's white-minority government. REUTER 
LIBYANS APPEAR TO BE PULLING OUT OF CHAD

Libyan forces appear to be withdrawing from their last stronghold in Chad after suffering defeats at the hands of French-backed government troops, according to officials in both the U.S. And France. In Washington, a State Department spokesman told reporters "we have no reason to doubt that Libyan forces are leaving Faya Largeau," Libya's main garrison in Chad. The French Defence Ministry said it could not confirm the departure of the Libyan troops, but an official said "it is extremely likely. They are deprived of air cover and supplies, and their morale must be zero." REUTER 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER OPPOSES TAX INCREASE

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said that he opposes a Federal tax increase to help reduce the budget deficit and favors spending cuts instead. "I don't think it's (a tax increase) is a very good idea and I'm quite confident that President Reagan doesn't think it's a very good idea," Baker said in an interview on Cable News Network's "Moneyline" television program. He said U.S. taxpayers are taxed at a rate of 19 pct of GNP which is traditionally where it has been, but the Federal Government is spending at a rate of 24 pct of GNP. Baker said spending cuts are clearly the best way to cut budget deficits. Baker said he opposed a stock transactions tax proposed by House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex, or other special taxes. "The stock transfer tax would be a particularly unfortunate approach to take," the Treasury Secretary said. He said the United States has some of the most efficient capital markets in the world and new taxes would impair efficiency. On the international front, Baker said banks must do more lending to developing countries. He was questioned about this after the Standard and Poor's Corp downgrading today of the debt of six major money center bank holding companies, largely because of their heavy developing nation loan exposure. Baker said that developing countries must adopt free market economic policies such as in the United States. He said capital flows will be required to support the needed reforms in the economic systems of those countries. The money must come either through equity or debt and Baker said that developing nations' "investment regimes do not support enough equity investment, so you've got to have some debt there." Commenting on the U.S. trade deficit, Baker said "I think you're going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction this year." Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS HE STANDS BY PARIS PACT

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he stood by the Paris agreement among leading industrial nations to foster exchange rate stability around current levels. "I would refer you to the Paris agreement which was a recognition the currencies were within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals," Baker told The Cable News Network in an interview. "We were quite satisfied with the agreement in Paris otherwise we would not have been a party too it," he said. Baker also noted the nations agreed in the accord to "co-operate to foster greater exchange rate stability around those levels." He refused to comment directly on the current yen/dollar rate but said flatly that foreign exchange markets recently tended "to draw unwarranted inferences from what I say." Baker was quoted on British Television over the weekend as saying he has no target for the U.S. currency, a statement that triggered this week's renewed decline of the dollar. "I think the Paris agreement represents evidence that international economic policy co-ordination is alive and well," Baker said. The Treasury Secretary stressed however it was very important for the main surplus countries to grow as fast as they could consistent with low inflation to resolve trade imbalances. He added that Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker has also "been very outspoken" in suggesting main trading partners grow as fast as they can. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER DECLINES COMMENT ON VOLCKER

Treasury Secretary James Baker declined to comment on whether President Reagan would reappoint Paul Volcker to a third term as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. "I spent four years and two weeks in the White House job refusing to comment on personnel matters," he said in an interview with the Cable News Network. "I'm not going to change now." But Baker did say Volcker has "done a tremendous job" and added they get on "extremely well", both when he was White House chief of staff and during his term at Treasury. When asked whether he differed with Volcker on international economic policy, Baker said "there's really no difference of opinion between us with respect to these matters." In other comments, Baker said he did not think a tax rise was a good idea and nor did President Reagan. But he believed Congress would enact some spending cuts. "The minute you say raise taxes, all restraints on spending go by the board." He once again pointed out that taxes were 19 pct of gnp but spending was at 24 pct, a statistic he used to argue strongly for spending cuts. reuter 
GULF ESCORTS STILL UNDER DISCUSSION - WEINBERGER

No action has been taken yet on the Reagan Adminstration's offer to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers through the Gulf, but the issue is being discussed, U.S. Secretary of Defence Caspar Weinberger said. The offer was made to Kuwait in light of Iran's deployment of Chinese-built missiles to cover the entrance to the Gulf. Weinberger told reporters prior to a speech at Texas Christian University that he did not think Iran and the United States were moving towards a potential conflict, adding that the Straits of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf were still "free water." REUTER 
CONRAIL INITIAL OFFER PRICED AT 28 DLRS SHARE

Lead underwriter <Goldman, Sachs and Co> said an initial public offering of 58,750,000 shares of <Consolidated Rail Corp> common stock has been priced at 28.00 dlrs per share. The sale is the largest initial public offering ever. All of the shares are being sold by the U.S. government. They represent an 85 pct interest in Conrail, the large northeastern freight-carrying railroad. Employees of Conrail retain the other 15 pct. The shares will be traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol <CRR> starting this morning. Initially, underwriters had said in proxy materials that the shares were expected to be priced at 22 to 26 dlrs per share. But last week they raised the expected range to 26 to 29 dlrs per share. Conrail was formed during the 1970's from Penn Central Railroad and other financially-distressed northeastern rail carriers. The offering will raise about 1.65 billion dlrs before underwriting fees. Previously, the largest initial public offering in dollar terms had been Henley Group Inc's <HENG> 1.3 billion dlr spinoff from Allied Corp <ALD> last year. Other lead underwriters are First Boston Inc <FBC>, Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER>, Salomon Inc <SB> and American Express Co's <AXP> Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Fifty-two mln shares are being sold in the U.S. through a syndicate of 148 underwriters and 6,750,000 overseas through a 27-member syndicate. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER OPPOSES STOCK TRANSACTION TAX

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he opposed a stock transactions tax proposed by House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Tex, or other special taxes. "The stock transfer tax would be a particularly unfortunate approach to take," Baker said in an interview with Cable News Network. The United States has some of the most efficient capital markets in the world and new taxes would impair efficiency, he said. Reuter 
BAKER SEES 15 TO 20 BILLION DLR DROP IN TRADE GAP

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he expected the U.S. Trade deficit to fall by 15 billion to 20 billion dlrs in 1987. Commenting on the deficit during an interview on Cable News Network, Baker said "I think you're going to see a 15 to 20 billion dlr reduction this year." The deficit was 170 billion dlrs in 1986. Baker noted that the benefits of a weaker currency take 12 to 18 months to affect the trade balance, and said it is now 18 months since the Plaza agreement to lower the dollar's value. Reuter 
BRANIFF <BAIR> MAY GET MEXICAN SERVICE AUTHORITY

Braniff Inc said a U.S. Department of Transportation administrative law judge has recommended that a certificate be granted authorizing Braniff to operate air service for five years on a temporary and experimental basis between Dallas/Fort Worth and San Antonio, Texas, and Mexico City and Acapulco, Mexico. The company said the recommendation must still be approved by Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole and President Reagan. Braniff has been operating the routes under exemption authority granted by the Transportation Department in October. Reuter 
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS ROSE IN WEEK

New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 341,000 in the week ended March 14 from 340,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,454,000 in the week ended March 7, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,507,000 the previous week. Reuter 
S. KOREA MAY BUY U.S. OIL TO AID TRADE BALANCE

South Korea is studying a plan to buy more coal from the United States and to start importing Alaskan crude oil to help reduce its huge trade surplus with the United States, Energy Ministry officials said today. They said the plan would dominate discussions at two-day energy talks between officials of the two countries in Washington from April 1. Huh Sun-yong, who will attend the talks with three other Seoul government officials, told Reuters that Seoul was "positively considering buying a certain amount of Alaskan oil beginning this year as part of our government's overall plan to reduce a widening trade gap between the two countries." Huh said however that South Korean refineries considered the Alaskan oil economically uncompetitive. Reuter 
U.S TREASURY'S MULFORD REAFFIRMS G-6 AGREEMENT

Treasury Assistant Secretary David Mulford reaffirmed U.S. backing for the Paris Agreement among six industrial nations to cooperate closely to foster exchange rate stability around current levels. In testimony prepared for delivery before a Senate banking subcommittee, Mulford said there was broad recognition in Paris that "further substantial exchange rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects." But he also said while there are clear understandings among the countries regarding cooperation, "We have refrained from establishing a system of target zones or ranges." Mulford also said the six nations have not spelled out the way in which they intend to deal with possible market developments. He said governments must retain flexibility in dealing with exchange market pressures and efforts to establish rigid exchange rate objectives "or to specify too precisely the goals of intervention" would hurt official attempts to react to market pressures, he said. Accordingly, Mulford said setting specific currency objectives and intervention to achieve those objectives would be counterproductive. Commenting on the trade deficit, Mulford reiterated the Treasury position that the current account deficit will decline from 148 billion dlrs last year to around 130 billion dlrs this year, due to the exchange rate adjustments of the past 18 months. But he added trade imbalances would also be corrected by commitments from West Germany and Japan to stimulate their economies and by U.S. efforts to cut the budget deficit and enhance U.S. competitiveness. He also said some newly industrialized countries should let their currencies appreciate. Reuter 
U.S. GOLD EAGLE SALES PROJECTED AT 3.1 MLN OUNCES

American Eagle gold bullion coin sales are projected at 3.1 mln troy ounces in their first year on the market, well above the target of 2.2 mln, Donna Pope, director of the U.S. Mint, told journalists. World sales, which began on October 20, 1986, reached 2.193 mln ounces in less than six months of sales. This made it world market leader with a share of 37 pct in 1986, Pope said. Pope said that in volume terms, nearly half of all gold Eagle sales were within North America, roughly 40 pct were in Europe and about eight pct in Asia. She said despite introduction of several new gold bullion coins on the market recently, the Mint is aiming to preserve the Eagle's strong market share with extensive publicity. The Mint uses mainly newly mined U.S. Gold for the coins, as long as this is available at market prices. The remaining gold is taken either from U.S. Treasury stocks, or from the open market, Pope said. Gold analysts said the Eagle is facing competition here from the Canadian Maple Leaf, and also to a lesser extent from the South African Krugerrand. Some estimated the Maple Leaf's West German market share at 60 pct. The figures may be distorted, as many German investors buy gold bullion in Switzerland or Luxembourg to escape the 14 pct value-added tax imposed here. Including the tax, the one-ounce coins traded today at 906 marks, they said. Competition may also come from new gold coins, including Belgium's ECU, which began sales today. Britain and Australia also have plans to mint gold bullion coins, the analysts said. REUTER 
MULFORD SEES MORE BANK LOANS TO DEBTORS IN 1987

U.S. Treasury Assistant Secretary David Mulford said he foresaw substantial net new commercial loans to the major debtor countries in 1987. In testimony before a Senate banking subcommittee, Mulford said he based this prediction on progress in talks between banks and Mexico, Chile, and Venezuela, as well as progress in negotiations with the Philippines. "These agreements, together with others for Argentina and we hope Brazil," should assure substantial new loans this year, Mulford said. Mulford defended the U.S. strategy for handling the debt crisis and added additional steps, like development by commercial banks of a menu of options to support debtor reform, can be undertaken. That particular development would maintain broad bank participation in new financing packages to debtors. Mulford stessed that greater flexibility in devising new money packages may be essential for future bank syndications. "The commercial banks have much to gain from taking the lead themselves to develop the kinds of ideas that help assure the concerted lending process works," he said. In particular, Mulford said banks and debtor nations will increasingly move toward repricing, retiming or rescheduling agreements as an alternative to new loans. "The benefits of such approaches may be substantial and may, in the right circumstances, be easier to achieve than new money packages," he said. But for debtors with substantial financing needs, new lending will still be necessary, he said. Mulford rejected congressional ideas for a debt facility as being far too costly to creditor governments, and ultimately taxpayers. Mulford urged further development of debt-equity swaps as well as broader mutual funds for conversion into equity. As in the past, Mulford said progress must be founded on economic reforms and sufficient new financing for debtors both to support those reforms and generate new growth. Reuter 
ST LAWRENCE SEAWAY OPENING STILL MARCH 31

The St Lawrence Seaway between Lake Ontario and Montreal is still scheduled to open for the shipping season on March 31, a Seaway official said. The Great Lakes could have been open for traffic earlier this month due to the mild Winter, but scheduled repairs to the Welland Canal joining Lake Erie with Lake Ontario will keep that section closed until the April 1 opening, she said. One lock system in the four-lock Soo Canal joining Lake Superior with Huron was opened on the morning of March 22, but only three commercial vessels have been locked through so far, according to an U.S. Army Corps of Engineers official. The Soo Canal is currently only open for daylight vessel movement, with 24 hour movement allowed beginning March 29, she added. Reuter 
MOBIL <MOB> TO UPGRADE REFINERY UNIT

Mobil Corp said it will spend over 30 mln dlrs to upgrade a gasoline-producing unit at its Beaumont, Texas, refinery. It said the unit is a catalytic reformer, which converts low-octane components of gasoline into high-octane components for use in Super Unleaded gasoline. The company said the modernization will allow the unit to regenerate catalysts on a continuous basis without shutdown. Currently, it must be shut twice a year. The unit produces 46,000 barrels of gasoline components a year. Construction will start late this year, with completion set for mid-1989. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE HITS EC OILS TAX, VOWS RETALIATION

The Senate voted to condemn the proposed European common market tax on vegetable and marine fats and oils and said it would result in retaliation. The non-binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senate sentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote. "The administration should communicate to the European Community the message that the United States will view the establishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the European Community's obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that will result in the adoption of strong and immediate countermeasures," the resolution stated. The resolution said the European Community Commission has proposed establishing a consumption tax on vegetable and fish oils and fats in conjunction with the setting of farm prices for the 1987/1988 EC marketing year. The Senate said the tax would amount to almost 90 pct of the current price of soyoil and "have a restrictive effect" on U.S. exports of soybeans and vegetable oils to the EC. It would be "blatantly inconsistent" with obligations of the EC under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, the resolution said, and "constitute another egregious attempt" to impose EC agricultural costs on trading partners. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. government securities market to add reserves during its usual intervention period today, economists said. With federal funds trading at a steady 6-3/16 pct, most economists expect an indirect injection of temporary reserves via a medium-sized round of customer repurchase agreements. However, some economists said the Fed may arrange more aggressive system repurchase agreements. Economists would also not rule out an outright bill pass early this afternoon. Such action had been widely anticipated yesterday but failed to materialize. Reuter 
FARMERS COMMODITIES TO CLEAR FUTURES FOR CO-OPS

Farmers Commodities of Des Moines, Iowa, has taken steps to become a clearing member of the Chicago Board of Trade for farm cooperatives that currently trade through Illnois Cooperative Futures Co. Hal Richards, president of Farmers Commodities, said the company already has bought a membership at the futures exchange and has applied for clearing status. He said the company is attempting to become the clearing company for the members of Illinois Coop after they voted to dissolve the company Wednesday. Illinois Coop will cease operating April 24. Richards declined to say how many of the Illinois Coop members were considering joining Farmers, but he said the number was "significant." He said he was recruiting the staff of Illinois Coop, including Al Evans, back office manager. Richards said Farmers Commodities was the largest member of Illinois Coop, and its 700 members felt that the coop should retain a clearing membership at the board. "It allows us to get better quality execution," he said. "Anyone who wants to join our clearing corporation in the cooperative system, we'll invite them to join us. "I think we'll attract others to us because it's our intent to pass the profit back on to the individual members," he said. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE HITS EC OILS TAX, VOWS RETALIATION

The Senate voted to condemn the proposed European common market tax on vegetable and fish fats and oils and said it would result in retaliation. The non binding Senate resolution, a sense of Senate sentiment, was approved on a 99 to 0 vote. "The administration should communciate to the European Community the message that the United States will view the establishment of such a tax as inconsistent with the European Community's obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that will result in the adoption of strong and immediate countermeasures," the resolution stated. Reuter 
SENATE SEEKS U.S. PROBE OF CANADIAN CORN LEVY

The Senate voted unanimously to seek an expedited U.S. probe of Canadian tariffs on corn imports to determine if the United States should retaliate. By 99 to 0, the Senate went on record against the 84.9 cents per bushel tariff approved by the Canadian Import Tribunal. The non binding measure asked for a probe by the U.S. Trade Representative to determine within 30 days whether the tariff violates the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and if so recommend within 60 days to President Reagan retaliatory action against Canada. Reuter 
EASTERN AIR <TXN> SEEKS MORE ARGENTINA FLIGHTS

Texas Air Corp's Eastern Airlines Inc said it asked the U.S. Department of Transportation to approve an increase in the number of its weekly roundtrip flights to Buenos Aires to 11 from five. It said if several of Pan Am Corp's <PN> one-stop flights to Buenos Aires were terminated in Rio de Janeiro, Eastern could add four non-stop flights from the U.S. The expanded weekly schedule would include seven nonstop flights from Miami, two from New York, and two one-stop flights from Los Angeles via Lima. It asked for the change by June 12. Reuter 
(CORRECTED) - MOBIL <MOB> TO UPGRADE REFINERY UNIT

Mobil Corp said it will spend over 30 mln dlrs to upgrade a gasoline-producing unit at its Beaumont, Texas, refinery. It said the unit is a catalytic reformer, which converts low-octane components of gasoline into high-octane components for use in Super Unleaded gasoline. The company said the modernization will allow the unit to regenerate catalysts on a continuous basis without shutdown. Currently, it must be shut twice a year. The unit produces 46,000 barrels of gasoline components a day. Construction will start late this year, with completion set for mid-1989. (Correcting unit's output to barrels/day from barrels/year) Reuter 
CFTC LIMIT PLAN MAY NOT REVERSE LIQUIDITY DROP

A proposal by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, to raise federal limits on futures speculative positions for certain agricultural commodity contracts would not reverse a decline in liquidity in those markets that started in 1981, two CFTC commissioners said. Commissioners William Seale and Kalo Hineman told a House Agriculture subcommittee a recent proposal that would have the effect of raising deferred month speculative position limits on several agricultural commodity contracts would not substantially increase liquidity in those months. "I seriously doubt that increasing speculative limits will create a great deal of liquidity in the back months," Seale told the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation, Credit and Rural Development. Analysts have attributed much of the liquidity squeeze to a 1981 tax law change, which by changing the treatment of so-called straddles limited the ability of futures commission merchants to roll positions forward for tax purposes. CFTC Chairman Susan Phillips said only that the commission would take into account Congress' recommendation that federal speculative limits be raised. The Chicago Board of Trade and the MidAmerica Commodity Exchange have expressed concern that the CFTC plan would decrease spot month limits for certain of their contracts. Reuter 
FINAL 1986 CROP U.S. COTTON GINNINGS

Final 1986 crop U.S. cotton ginnings totaled 9,438,425 running bales, vs 12,987,834 bales at the end of the 1985 season and 12,544,866 bales at end-1984 season, the U.S. Census Bureau said. The bureau said upland cotton ginnings from the final 1986 crop totaled 9,237,296 bales, vs 12,837,088 bales in 1985 and 12,418,749 bales in 1984. American Pima ginnings from the final 1986 crop totaled 201,129 bales, vs 150,746 bales in the 1985 crop and 126,117 bales in 1984, the bureau said. REUTER 
BP<BP> OFFER RAISES EXPECTATIONS FOR OIL VALUES

British Petroleum Plc's plan to pay 7.4 billion dlrs for less than half of Standard Oil Co has signalled higher values in the U.S. oil patch, analysts said. "I think that BP's bid is a very strong affirmation and clear signal that they have confidence in the U.S., and they think the barrel of oil in the ground is going to go higher," said Sanford Margoshes of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. BP earlier today said its U.S. unit planned to tender at 70 dlrs per share for the 45 pct of Standard it does not already own. "It's a 7.4 billion dlr price that (shows) OPEC has won the war and oil prices are not going to crack," said Prescott, Ball and Turben analyst Bruce Lazier. "Behind that is a huge implication for the rest of the energy issues out there in the stock market, particularly those that are acquisition targets," Lazier said. One of those mentioned by Lazier was USX Corp, an energy-steel concern which had been courted by investor Carl Icahn and drew the attention of Australian Robert Holmes a Court last year. Rumors continue to swirl around its stock. Margoshes said he does not foresee major U.S. oil firms falling into takeover situations for several years, with the exception of possibly Amerada Hess Corp <AHC>. He said most of the majors found partners in the last round of matchmaking which ended two years ago, and others restructured to the point that they have become unattractive. U.S. oil stocks rallied in response to the offer. Exxon Corp <XON> rose 1-1/8 to 88-1/2. Chevron Corp <CHV> jumped 1-1/8 to 58-7/8, and Texaco <TX> climbed 1/4 to 37-3/4. Unocal Corp <UCL> rose 1-3/4, while Occidental Petroleum Corp <OXY> climbed 1-1/8 to 34-3/4. Amoco Corp <AN> rose 1-3/8 to 83-3/4. Standard Oil's stock was up 6-1/4 in heavy trading to 71-1/8. Earlier in the session it had been at a high of 72-1/4. Wall Street has speculated British Petroleum may boost its offer by several dlrs per share, but the company maintained it would not raise the 70 dlr bid. British Petroleum stock rose 2-1/4 to 59-5/8. Analysts said the fact British Petroleum made such a bid in the first place indicates that the British oil giant has changed its outlook for the oil industry. Analysts said last year British Petroleum held one of the more bearish positions on oil prices. "They said the real price of oil would stay at 15 dlrs (a barrel) for several years, and I think they beat a hasty retreat from that point of view," Margoshes said. "They are more appropriately today looking more optimistically. I believe they are looking at 18 dlrs (long-term)...also in their heart of hearts they believe that will be exceeded," Margoshes said. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate was trading today around 18.60 dlrs per barrel. Analysts said British Petroleum might have been able to buy up the rest of Standard Oil for about 50 dlrs per share when oil prices were falling last year. They said Standard Oil's brightest asset is its slightly more than 50 pct ownership of the Alaskan Prudhoe Bay oil field. Analysts also said the company has other interests in the Alaskan North Slope. Analysts said the Standard investment is extremely attractive to BP because the U.S. is the largest oil market and has hard-to-replace reserves. "I think it just fits in with their long-range plans to increase their position in the U.S. market," Dean Witter analyst Eugene Nowak said. Analysts said it also raises BP's visibility ahead of the British government's announced disposal of 31.7 pct of BP stock. The U.K. government said it would dispose of the holding sometime in the year beginning April one. After acquiring all of Standard, most of BP's reserves would be in the U.S., but only about six pct of its stock is held in the U.S. "The only way they can sell all that stock is to move it into the United States. No other market can handle all that stock," said L.F. rothschild analyst Rosario Ilacqua. In 1986, Standard Oil had net losses of 345 mln dlrs on revenues of 10.02 billion dlrs, compared to a profit the year earlier of 308 mln dlrs on revenues of 13.82 billion dlrs. Reuter 
AMERICUS TRUST FOR MERCK <MKUWI> STARTS TRADING

The American Stock Exchange said the units of Americus Trust for Merck Shares and an equal number of prime and score components of the units, began trading today on a "when issued" basis. The trust is a unit investment trust sponsored by Americus Shareowner Service Corp and is issuing the units in exchange for shares of Merck and Co <MRK> stock tendered to the trust. The units opened on a bid and offer of 165 to 166, and the prime components, trading under ticker symbol <MKPWI>, opened on 100 primes at 119-1/2, the Exchange said. Also, the score components opened on 1,000 scores at 48, it said. Reuter 
CARDENAS SEES NO MAJOR DECISIONS AT ICO MEETING

Jorge Cardenas, manager of Colombia's coffee growers' federation, said he did not believe any important decisions would emerge from an upcoming meeting of the International Coffee Organization (ICO). The ICO executive board is set to meet in London from March 31 and could decide to call a special council session by the end of April to discuss export quotas. "It's going to be a routine meeting, an update of what has been happening in the market, but it's unlikely any major decisions are taken," Cardenas told journalists. Earlier this month, talks in London to re-introduce export quotas, suspended in February 1986, ended in failure. Colombian finance minister Cesar Gaviria, also talking to reporters at the end of the weekly National Coffee Committee meeting, said the positions of Brazil and of the United States were too far apart to allow a prompt agreement on quotas. Brazil's coffee chief Jorio Dauster said yesterday Brazil would not change its coffee policies. Cardenas said the market situation was getting clearer because the trade knew the projected output and stockpile levels of producers. He said according to ICO statistics there was a shortfall of nine mln (60-kg) bags on the world market between October, the start of the coffee year, and February. Reuter 
BANK OF MONTREAL HOPEFUL ON BRAZIL - PRESIDENT

<Bank of Montreal> is confident a solution will be found to Brazil's foreign debt problem and is not considering declaring its Brazilian loans non-performing, president Grant Reuber said. Speaking to reporters after a speech to a Toronto business group, Reuber said: "I think at this stage it is really too early to say very much about (the Brazilian debt situation) but we're pretty confident that things will work out." He declined to comment on when such a settlement was likely. Bank of Montreal had 1.98 billion dlrs in loans to Brazil as of last September 30, the most of any Canadian bank. Brazil last month suspended interest payments on its 68 billion U.S. dlr foreign bank debt. Asked if Bank of Montreal were considering declaring its Brazil loans non-performing, Reuber replied: "We haven't really got to that point because we don't think we will have to face that issue." Some bankers in the U.S. said earlier this week that slow progress in talks between Brazil and its major foreign lenders has increased the likelihood that U.S. banks will declare their Brazil loans non-performing at the end of the quarter. Reuber told reporters the bank was still pondering its strategy regarding possible entry into the securities business after June 30 when banks and other financial institutions will be allowed full participation in the Ontario securities industry. He said price would help determine if the bank formed its own securities unit or acquired an existing investment dealer, adding that asking prices for some dealers seem "fairly high." Asked about plans for wholly owned Harris Bankcorp Inc, of Chicago, Reuber said Harris might consider acquiring more small community banks around Chicago. "In addition, I think we are giving some consideration to the possibility of extension into other states," Reuber said of Harris, although he added that any such move was unlikely this year. In his speech, focusing on current free trade talks between the U.S. and Canada, Reuber said failure to reach a deal would not represent a calamity for Canada but could lower Canada's standard of living, raise unemployment and reduce the country's world trading influence. Reuter 
NY TRADERS SAY SOVIETS MADE LARGE SUGAR PURCHASE

The Soviet Union bought almost 90,000 tonnes of raw sugar from international trade houses last night, with some of the sugar changing hands at discounts to the spot May world sugar contract, according to trade sources. They said Japanese trade houses sold up to three cargoes of Thai sugar for relatively nearby delivery. British and European-based trade houses sold the remaining six cargoes for shipment between April/May/July, they said. Traders said this week's sharp fall in world sugar prices helped to provoke the Soviet Union into covering nearby needs. Yesterday, spot May sugar closed at 7.18 cents a pound. Reuter 
CHINA SWITCHES U.S. WHEAT TO 1987/88 FROM 86/87

China has switched purchases of U.S. wheat totaling 60,000 tonnes from the 1986/87 season, which began June 1, to 1987/88 season delivery, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said outstanding wheat sales to China for the current season amount to 90,000 tonnes and sales for delivery in the 1987/88 season amount to 910,000 tonnes. Total corn commitments for the 1986/87 season total 1,015,800 tonnes, the department said. Reuter 



CALIFORNIA MICRO <CAMD>, GRUMMAN <GQ> SET PACT

California Micro Devices Corp said it has signed an agreement with Grumman Corp's Tachonics Corp unit to develop and product gallium arsenide seminconductor chips. Under the pact, California Micro Devices will design the chips and Tachonics will manufacture them. Initial products to be developed will be gate arrays with 500 to 2,500 gate complexity and radiation hardening capabilities, the company said. Reuter 
NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 222 MLN DLRS

Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 222 mln dlrs to 64.05 billion in the week ended March 18, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. Including acceptances, loans fell 390 mln dlrs to 64.74 billion. Commercial paper outstanding nationally rose 35 mln dlrs to 339.04 billion. National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. Reuter 
N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS NIL IN WEEK

The eight major New York City banks did not borrow from the Federal Reserve in the week ended Wednesday March 25, a Fed spokesman said. It was the second half of a two-week bank statement period that ended on Wednesday. The banks did not borrow in the first week of the period. Reuter 
NO GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA

There were no shipments of U.S. grain or soybeans to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 19, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department's latest Export Sales report. The USSR has purchased 2.40 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement. Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES 1.2 BILLION DLR

U.S. M-1 money supply rose 1.2 billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 740.2 billion dlrs in the March 16 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 739.0 billion dlrs from 738.7 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 739.1 billion dlrs from 738.3 billion. Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 would rise anywhere from 700 mln dlrs to three billion dlrs. The average forecast called for a 1.8 billion dlr increase. Reuter 
HAWAIIAN AIRLINES <HA> TO EXPAND SERVICES

Hawaiian Airlines Inc said it will continue to expand services to Pacific Islands this year. The company said it will increase its South Pacific services to daily service, from the current four flights per week, and beginning May 21 it will fly twice a week to the Western Pacific to Guam. Hawaiian Airlines also said it has applied with the Department of Transportation for an emergency exemption to provide service to Tahiti, with connecting services to American Samoa, New Zealand and Cooke Islands. Reuter 
NEXT FEW MONTHS CRUCIAL FOR OIL - HERNANDEZ

Energy and Mines Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti today told a meeting of regional oil exporters the next few months will be critical to efforts to achieve price recovery and stabilize the market. Hernandez said while OPEC and non-OPEC nations have already made some strides in their efforts to strengthen the market, the danger of a reversal is always present. "March and the next two or three months will be a really critical period," Hernandez said. He said, "We will be able to define a movement, either towards market stability and price recovery or, depending on the market, a reversal." Earlier this week, Hernandez said Venezuela's oil price has averaged just above 16 dlrs a barrel for the year to date. If OPEC achieves its stated goal of an 18 dlrs a barrel average price, he said, Venezuela's should move up to 16.50 dlrs. Hernandez spoke today at the opening of the fifth ministerial meeting of the informal group of Latin American and Caribbean oil exporters, formed in 1983. Ministers from member states Ecuador, Mexico, Trinidad-Tobago and Venezuela are attending the two day conference, while Colombia is present for the first time as an observer. Hernandez defined the meeting as an informal exchange of ideas about the oil market. However, the members will also discuss ways to combat proposals for a tax on imported oil currently before the U.S. Congress. Following the opening session, the group of ministers met with President Jaime Lusinchi at Miraflores, the presidential palace. The delegations to the conference are headed by Hernandez of Venezuela, Energy Minister Javier Espinosa of Ecuador, Energy Minister Kelvin Ramnath of Trinidad-Tobago, Jose Luis Alcudiai, assistant energy secretary of Mexico and Energy Minister Guilermno Perry Rubio of Colombia. Reuter 
OIL EXECUTIVES SEE GRADUAL RISE IN PRICES

Top executives with Tenneco Corp <TGT> and Sabine Corp <SAB> said they expected world oil prices to gradually increase over the next two years as U.S. reliance on imports of oil from the Middle East grows. "I believe we have bottomed out and can look forward to a trend of gradually increasing prices," C.W. Nance, president of Tenneco Oil Exploration and Production, told a meeting of the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Association. Nance predicted that by 1990, the Organization of Producing and Exporting Countries would be producing at the rate of 80 pct of capacity. The gain will come largely through increased imports to the United States, he said. "They will be able to raise the price again but I do not think they will raise it as much as they did in 1979," Nance said. He did not say how much of a price hike he expected. Andrew Shoup, chairman of Dallas-based Sabine, predicted that world oil prices would increase from a range of 15 to 20 dlrs a barrel in 1987 to a range of 17 to 22 dlrs a barrel in 1988. Natural gas prices, Shoup said, should similarly climb from a range of 1.30 to 1.70 dlrs per mcf this year to between 1.50 and 1.90 dlrs per mcf in 1988. "Fuel switching could help us as much as five pct in increased demand," Shoup said, referring to the gas industry's outlook for 1987. Repeal of the Fuel Use Act, a federal law prohibiting the use of natural gas in new manufacturing plants and utilities, could increase demand for gas by as much as 15 pct, he said. Tenneco's Nance also said that some U.S. cities may experience peak day shortages in natural gas supplies next winter because of the industry's reduced deliverability. Tenneco's gas deliverability, for example, dropped by 20 pct during 1986, he said. "This does not mean the gas bubble is gone," Nance said. "We believe gas prices have bottomed out. The real question is how broad the valley is -- is it one year, two years or three years before we start to climb out?" J.C. Walter of <Walter Oil and Gas Corp>, said the recent improvement in oil prices was not enough for independent producers to begin new onshore drilling projects. "If crude oil stays below 20 dlrs a barrel and 1.50 dlr per mcf for natural gas prevails, the prospects for onshore exploration at deeper depths in the Texas Gulf Coast by independents in the 1990s are pretty dismal," Walter said. He suggested that some independents may instead turn to exploration in shallow federal offshore leases. Farm-out agreements, cheap rig rates and less competition have held finding costs in those areas to five or six dlrs a barrel, Walter said. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE BUDGET CHIEF CRITICIZES CHILES PLAN

White House Budget Director James Miller said a budget plan drafted by Senate Budget Chairman Lawton Chiles (D-Fla.) was "seriously deficient." In a statement, Miller called the senator's proposal for the government's fiscal 1988 budget would cut U.S. defense spending authority by more than 25 billion dlrs from President Reagan's request, resulting in a real reduction of military spending authority for the third year in a row. While the plan would allow actual 1988 defense spending to rise by 5.6 billion dlrs, domestic spending would be increased by a disprportionate 42.7 billion dlrs, he said. Miller also criticized the Chiles plan's call for a 13.6 billion dlr tax increase. "The president has said repeatedly that he would veto any tax increase," Miller said. Reuter 
REPORT SAYS SOVIET ECONOMIC PLANS TOO OPTIMISTIC

The Soviet economy has grown at an increased rate under Mikhail Gorbachev's leadership, but his goals may be too ambitious, according to a report from U.S. intelligence agencies. The report was prepared jointly by the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency for the Congressional Joint Economic committee, which released it. It said the Soviet economy grew by 4.2 pct in 1986, Gorbachev's first full year in power, twice the average rate of growth over the previous 10 years. Gorbachev's policies to improve worker attitudes, remove incompetent officials, reduce corruption and alcoholism and modernize the country's industrial equipment accounted for some of the gains, the report said. "Although many of the specific policies Gorbachev has adopted are not new, the intensity Gorbachev has brought to his efforts and his apparent commitment to finding long-term solutions are attributes that his immediate predecessors lacked. Nonetheless, Gorbachev's program appears too ambitious on a number of counts," the report said. Earlier this week, two U.S. experts on the Soviet Union said Gorbachev was likely to be ousted in three to four years if he continues his reform policies. "I don't think he can last four years," Marshall Goldman of Harvard University told a Congressional hearing. "He's moving so fast, he's stepping on so many toes." A similar comment came from Peter Reddaway of the Smithsonian Institution's Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian studies. The economic report said meeting targets for commodity output would require unrealistic gains in productivity and industrial output targets appear too high to allow time to install more advanced equipment. None of Gorbachev's proposals would change the system of economic incentives that has discouraged innovation and technological change, the report added. "The first significant resistance to specific policies, although not overall goals, surfaced (in 1986) in both the massive government and party bureaucracy, particularly among enterprise managers who complained that they were being asked to carry out conflicting goals -- such as to raise quality standards and output targets simultaneously," the report said. The CIA-DIA report predicted two to three pct growth in the Soviet economy over the next several years. It said the Soviet Union trailed the U.S. by seven to 12 years in advanced manufacturing technologies, such as computers and microprocessors. Reuter 
CINEPLEX ODEON TO OFFER STOCK IN THE U.S.

<Cineplex Odeon Corp> said it proposed to sell 3,650,000 shares of common stock in the United States in late April, its first U.S. public stock offering. In a registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange commission, Cineplex said it plans to offer the shares through an underwriting group managed by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets and Allen and Co. Cineplex also said that MCA Inc <MCA>, which holds a 50 pct stake in company, will buy one mln subordinated restricted voting shares. These shares, will be bought at the closing of the public offering with existing purchase rights, it said. Reuter 
ANGOLAN REBELS OFFER TO REOPEN BENGUELA RAILROAD

Angola's U.S.-backed UNITA rebel group has offered to reopen the Benguela railroad that runs through UNITA-held territory and links landlocked Zaire and Zambia to the Angolan port of Lobito. UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi, in a statement made in his Jamba headquarters in southern Angola and released by UNITA's Washington office, said he was prepared to guarantee safe passage for non-military freight as a gesture of "peace and reconciliation." Savimbi challenged the Cuban-backed Angolan government, which controls the port, to match his offer and allow goods to pass through. There was no immediate response from Luanda. UNITA has been fighting the Cuban-backed Angolan government since 1976. The offer of a rail route to the Atlantic would help South Africa's black neighbors reduce their economic dependence on South Africa. The U.S. Congress is currently considering a proposal to spend some 500 mln dlrs to build another railroad to help these states become less dependent on South Africa. The Beira corridor runs through Mozambique to Tanzania's Indian ocean ports but Savimbi suggested the Benguela route as an alternative. "The Benguela route can safely open immediately," he said. "It will provide the transportation our neighbors need, and it will not cost the Americans the money they say it will cost to open the Beira corridor." Reuter 
FED DATA INDICATE POLICY LIKELY TO STAY ON HOLD

Federal Reserve data released today indicate that there has been no policy change in recent weeks and that none is likely at next week's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting, economists said. "The Fed continues to be accommodative in its provision of reserves, indicating that there has been no policy shift since the beginning of this year," said Harold Nathan, economist at Wells Fargo Bank. "These numbers and other things suggest the FOMC will not change policy," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co. "The Fed is sitting fairly pretty now. There's no real reason for it to change policy," said Joseph Liro of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc. Liro said the economy is showing moderate growth and does not require immediate policy easing and the money aggregates may well end March at the bottom of their target ranges. All of the economists agreed that the Fed's major concern now is recent weakness in the dollar which early this week was heavily supported by central banks. They said fear of hurting the dollar will cause the Fed to be cautious in lowering interest rates further. Numbers released by the Fed today were all in line with expectations and similar to the data for most of this year. The Fed said that banks' net free reserves averaged 603 mln dlrs in the two-week statement period that ended on Wednesday versus 749 mln dlrs in the previous period. In the single week to Wednesday, banks' borrowings at the discount window, less extended credits, averaged 302 mln dlrs compared with 228 mln dlrs in the first week of the statement period. Meanwhile the Federal funds rate average edged up to 6.14 pct from 6.08 pct. The Fed's failure to add reserves in the market on Tuesday and Wednesday surprised some, but economists said the data released today suggest it had no real need to add reserves. The Fed's absence may be explained by the lack of any pressing need for it to supply reserves and by a desire to boost borrowings in the second week of the statement period to meet its borrowings target, said Liro of Warburg. Liro said the Fed probably is shooting for a two-week borrowings average of 300-325 mln dlrs. The borrowings actually averaged 265 mln dlrs in the latest statement period and that was up from 191 mln dlrs in the prior period. Brusca of Nikko agreed that the Fed probably is aiming for two-week average discount window borrowings of around 300 mln dlrs. He said that would correspond to a Federal funds rate of around 6.10 pct. It is nearly impossible for the Fed to hit any borrowings target since the demand for excess reserves is erratic, said Wells Fargo's Nathan. He said the Fed is focusing instead on the funds rate and is trying to keep it roughly within a six to 6-1/4 pct band. Upward funds rate pressure and a big reserve-adding need are anticipated for the statement period that began today. More Brusca believes the Fed will have to add 3.5 to four billion dlrs a day in reserves in this statement period. Liro puts the add need at around 3.9 billion dlrs. To partly address this requirement, many expect the Fed to add permanent reserves with effect next Thursday by offering to buy all maturities of Treasury bills on Wednesday. A similar coupon "pass" may be required later. There will be a greater demand for funds in this statement period because it includes the close of the quarter. Further upward pressure on the Federal funds rate may come from window dressing demand as the Japanese fiscal year ends on March 31. Reuter 
BCE DEVELOPMENT TO BUILD STORE IN MINNEAPOLIS

<BCE Development Corp> said its BCE Development Properties Inc U.S. unit agreed with Saks Fifth Avenue and the city of Minneapolis, Minnesota to build a four-level Saks store in downtown Minneapolis. The city will acquire the mall site from BCE Development, which will then lease it back from the city. The city will also subsidize an adjoining five-level 125,000 square foot retail development, said BCE Development Corp, 68 pct-owned by Bell Canada Enterprises Inc <BCE>. Other financial terms were undisclosed. Reuter 
IDA APPROVES 114 MLN DLR CREDIT FOR INDIA

The International Development Association said it approved a 114 mln dlr credit for India to support several water irrigation projects. IDA, the World Bank arm which lends to the poorest countries, said the projects are designed to increase agricultural productivity and farm incomes. Irrigation development has been a major factor in improving agricultural performance and yields in many areas but fall short of their potential due to unreliable water supply and often inequitable distribution, it noted. IDA said the credit supports a 7-year program to plan, implement and monitor improved operation of selected projects. In addition to the 50-year credit, the Indian government and participating states will provide 43 mln dlrs to the plan. Reuter 
BOLIVIA TO PROPOSE ANDEAN SUMMIT WITH REAGAN

Bolivian president Victor Paz Estenssoro will propose to Andean Pact countries a summit meeting with U.S. President Reagan to take place in Venezuela in May, foreign minister Guillermo Bedregal announced. He told reporters that the summit "if everything goes well" will possibly take place in one or two months. "We are coordinating an eventual meeting of the Andean Pact presidents and President Reagan, which could take place in Venezuela in May", he said. The proposal is part of Bolivia's intention to relaunch the Andean Pact, he added. The Andean Pact, formed by Colombia, Venezuela, Peru and Ecuador, is a sub-regional economic group set up in 1969 to counteract economic progress of other more developed South American countries, such as Argentina and Brazil. Reuter 
OREGON ALUMINUM SMELTER INCREASING OUTPUT

Northwest Aluminum Co said it will open a second pot line in mid-May, bringing the smelter here to 80 pct of its production capacity. Northwest Aluminum President Brett Wilcox, who leased the 30-year-old smelter from Martin Marietta Corp., said production would increase from around 45 tons a year at present to just over 70 tons. Martin Marietta closed and mothballed the smelter in 1984. Northwest Aluminum reopened it last December. Wilcox said a good aluminum market and several months of successful operation led to the decision to expand production. Reuter 
PHILIPPINES TO LOBBY U.S. FOR HIGHER SUGAR QUOTA

The Philippines will ask the U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) to increase its 1987 sugar import quota following market reports that Taiwan will not be able to fulfil its quota, Sugar Regulation Administration (SRA) chairman Arsenim Yulo said. Yulo told Reuters the SRA would also protest a USDA move to award Taiwan's shortfall to the Dominican Republic. The Dominican Republic already has a larger sugar quota, Yulo said. "Any Taiwanese shortfall should be awarded to the Philippines or at the least we should share a hike with the Dominican Republic." The USDA last December listed 1987 sugar import quota allocations for the Dominican Republic at 160,160 short tons and for Taiwan at 10,920 short tons. The Philippines has said it was badly hit by a cut in its quota to 143,780 short tons from 231,660 in 1986. REUTER 
INDIA REPORTEDLY ALLOWED TO BUY U.S. SUPERCOMPUTER

The U.S. Has approved the sale of a U.S.-made supercomputer to India while rejecting its request for a more powerful model, the New York Times reported. India wanted to buy a powerful supercomputer, such as the Cray X-MP with two processors running in tandem, but the Times said U.S. Officials offered a choice of machines with a single processor, several generations behind the Cray X-MP. The paper, citing unnamed U.S. Officials, said the Indian government was told of the decision last week, but has so far given no formal indication that it is interested in the type offered. India had asked the U.S. For an modern supercomputer which it indicated would be used for scientific purposes, notably sophisticated weather forecasting. However, India's close ties with the Soviet Union remains the main reason why the U.S. Has restricted the sale of its state-of-the-art computer technology to India, the Times said. U.S. Defence officials are particulalry concerned the Soviet Union could gain access to the supercomputer and use it to decipher high-level U.S. Codes, while others say the computer could be very useful in designing nuclear weapons. REUTER 
UNITED STATES LINES LAYS OFF FAR EAST STAFF

<United States Lines Inc> has laid off 260 employees, almost its entire Far East staff, its Hong Kong office general manager Elliott Burnside told Reuters. He also said calls by two of its container ships to Busan, South Korea and Kaohsiung, Taiwan, had been cancelled. He declined comment on local press reports that U.S. Lines planned to suspend operations because of failure to restructure its 1.27 billion U.S. Dlr debt, but said the firm would make an announcement later today. U.S. Lines filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter Eleven of the U.S. Federal law last November. The English-language South China Morning Post said U.S. Lines decided yesterday to sell its two remaining transpacific service fleets and assets and those of its U.S.-South America operation. It quoted a letter by company's chief executive Charles Hiltzheimer that said the ships and assets will be bought by rival U.S. Shipping companies, subject to approval by their boards. U.S. Lines' Far East operations comprise offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, Manila, Busan, Seoul, Tokyo, Yokohama, Kobe and Osaka, Burnside said. REUTER 
U.S. ENVOY SAYS MANILA WILL PAY ITS DEBTS

Outgoing United States Ambassador Stephen Bosworth told a news conference he did not think the Philippines would follow Brazil's example and suspend interest payments on foreign loans from commercial banks. "I see no evidence that the Philippine government even contemplates doing that. It has said at the outset that it accepts the legitimacy of these debts and it is determined over time to meet its obligations fully," he said. Philippine officials and a 12-bank committee have been meeting for the past four weeks in New York in a bid to reschedule 9.4 billion dlrs of foreign debt. Bosworth said the United States strongly supports Manila's bid to put its international financial situation in order and that the private bank creditors were aware of that. "I think there is no question that the private banks are aware of the views of the U.S. Government ... I am confident they will take those views into account when they make their own decisions," Bosworth said. He added: "These are private banks. They are responsible to their shareholders and they have to make their decisions on their own. But I am confident they understand the views of the United States and our strong support." REUTER 
USDA REJECTS SRI LANKA'S 80 U.S. DLR WHEAT PRICE

Sri Lankan Food Department officials said the U.S. Department of Agriculture rejected a U.S. Firm's offer of 80 U.S. Dlrs per tonne CAF to supply 52,500 tonnes of soft wheat to Colombo from the Pacific Northwest. They said Sri Lanka's Food Department subsequently made a counter-offer to five U.S. Firms to buy wheat at 85 U.S. Dlrs CAF for April 8-16 delivery. The company which obtains USDA approval for the proposed price must inform the Department before 1330 gmt, they said. REUTER 
TAIWAN BUYS 340,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE

The joint committee of Taiwan's maize importers awarded contracts to five U.S. Companies for seven shipments totalling 340,000 tonnes of maize for delivery between September 1 and December 20, a committee official said. United Grain Corp of Oregon won two contracts for the supply of 110,000 tonnes, priced between 92.44 and 96.00 dlrs per tonne, for September 1-15 and November 5-20 delivery. Cargill Inc of Minnesota also took two shipments totalling 110,000 tonnes, priced between 93.45 and 94.65 dlrs per tonne, for October 1-15 and December 5-20 delivery. ADM Export Co of Minnesota received a 54,000 tonne cargo, at 93.75 dlrs per tonne, for November 1-15 delivery. Cigra Inc of Chicago won a contract to supply 33,000 tonnes, at 96.89 dlrs per tonne, for November 25-December 10 delivery. Elders Grain Inc of Kansas took a 33,000 tonne shipment, at 96.06 dlrs per tonne, for December 1-15 delivery. All shipments are c and f Taiwan. REUTER 
INDIA COOL TO LIMITED U.S. SUPERCOMPUTER OFFER

Indian officials responded coolly to a reported U.S. Offer to sell India a supercomputer less powerful than it sought, saying it showed Washington's lack of sensitivity to Indian concerns. Asked about a New York Times report that the United States had offered New Delhi a supercomputer generations behind the type it requested, an official told Reuters, "If the U.S. is doing that they have not been sensitive to Indian concerns." He declined to confirm the report directly but said India had received an offer of a supercomputer from the United States "and we are considering it." Sounding disappointed and dismayed he added, "We do not wish at this stage to say whether it is the computer we were looking for, or a more or less powerful model." The official, who asked to remain anonymous, added: "An announcement will be made in 10 days to two weeks time." India has sought for more than two years to buy an advanced supercomputer primarily for monsoon forecasting. But the sale has been held up by U.S. Security concerns prompted by India's closeness to the Soviet Union, its chief arms supplier. Reuter 
U.S. CONSUMER PRICES ROSE 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY

U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers (CPI-U), rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 pct in February after a 0.7 pct January gain, the Labor Department said. The CPI for urban wage earners and clerical workers (CPI-W) rose to 329.0 in February, the department said. Prices for petroleum-based energy rose sharply for a second consecutive month during February but by less than in January, the department said. Energy prices rose 1.9 pct last month after a 3.0 pct rise in January, accounting for one-third of the overall CPI rise. For the 12 months ended in February, the CPI rose an unadjusted 2.1 pct. Transportation prices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5 pct increase in January. Smaller price rises for motor fuels and declines in new car prices and finance charges were responsible for the moderation. Gasoline prices rose 4.2 pct last month after increasing 6.6 pct in January, but were still 18 pct below levels of a year ago, the department said. Housing prices rose 0.4 pct in February after a 0.5 pct January increase, largely due to a rise in fuel oil prices. Fuel oil prices were up 4.4 pct in February after increasing 9.8 pct in January, but were still 15 pct below price levels of February 1986. Food prices rose 0.2 pct last month after a 0.5 pct January increase. Grocery store food prices were up 0.4 pct, the same as in January, but meat, poultry, fish and eggs cost less for a third consecutive month, the department said. Medical care rose 0.3 pct in February to a level 7.1 pct above one year ago, because of higher costs for prescription and non-prescription drugs and medical supplies, the department said. The index for apparel and upkeep rose 0.7 pct in February after a 0.4 pct increase in January. The department said the introduction of higher priced spring merchandise, particularly men's clothing, was responsible for the advance. Prices for other goods and services rose 0.7 pct in February following a 1.1 pct increase in January. Tobacco prices, up 0.9 pct after a 2.0 pct January increase, accounted for 30 pct of the index rise, the department said. Reuter 
STORMY WEATHER TO DISRUPT NORTH SEA SHIPPING

Very stormy weather is likely in the North Sea through Saturday, disrupting shipping in the region, private forecaster Accu-Weather Inc said. Rain will accompany the strong winds that are expected over the North Sea today into tonight. Saturday will also be very windy and cooler with frequent showers. Winds today will be southwest at 30 to 60 mph, but will become west to northwest tonight and Saturday at 25 to 50 mph. Waves will build to 20 to 30 feet today and tonight and continue Saturday. Wind and waves will not diminish until late in the weekend. Reuter 
BYRD SAYS REAGAN MAY WIN HIGHWAY VETO FIGHT

Senate majority leader Robert Byrd said President Reagan may win his latest veto battle with Congress over a nearly 88 billion highway construction bill. The West Virginia Democrat said it would be "tough" for the Senate to override the veto. Reagan is expected to announce he is rejecting the measure later today. Byrd said it would be difficult for the Senate to overcome a White House public relations campaign against the bill. The House, voting first, is expected to override it, House Republican Leader Bob Michel has said. It requires two houses to override a veto by two-thirds majorities. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BIDS ON BONUS WHEAT TO ALGERIA-USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted bids for export bonuses on 36,000 tonnes of durum wheat to Algeria, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonuses awarded averaged 40.42 dlrs per tonne and will be paid to exporters in the form of commodities from CCC inventories. The bonuses were made to Cam USA, Inc, the department said. The wheat is for shipment May 1-10, 1987. An additional 264,000 tonnes of durum wheat are still avaiable to Algeria under the Export Enhancement program initiative announced on March 16. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES, ECONOMISTS SAY

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. government securities market to add reserves today, economists said. They said the Fed would probably supply temporary reserves indirectly by arranging one to two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. After averaging 6.21 pct yesterday, federal funds were opened at 6-1/8 pct and remained at that level. Reuter 
DEALERS SAY FED INTERVENED BUYING DOLLARS IN U.S.

U.S. dealers said the New York Federal Reserve Bank has intervened in the foreign exchange market today buying dollars against yen. Fed officials do not comment on such intervention, but dealers said it appeared that the Fed had intervened when the dollar reached 147.50 yen in New York. The dollar subsequently hovered at 147.55/65 yen. Dealers said they were uncertain about the size of the intervention, but some said it was only for a small amount. They were also uncertain whether the Fed intervened on its own account, or if it executed orders for the Bank of Japan. Reuter 
REAGAN VETOES HIGHWAY BILL 

President Reagan vetoed an 87.5 billion dlrs highway and mass transit bill calling it a budget buster. The bill, which also contains a provision allowing states to raise highway speed limits, now goes back to Congress where the White House faces an uphill battle to sustain the veto. Reagan in a message to Congress said he had an alternative proposal that would authorize 66 billion dlrs over five years, the same levels as in the Senate-passed version of the bill. He said he recognized the states were rapidly running out of highway funds and the legislation needed to make funds available for the 1987 construction season. He said was no reason why Congress could not send a new bill that he could sign before the spring construction season was any further along. Reagan supports raising the speed limit to 65 mph from 55 mph on rural interstate highways. Reuter 
PEGASUS GOLD <PGULF> STARTS MILLING IN MONTANA

Pegasus Gold Inc said milling operations have started at its Montana Tunnels open-pit gold, silver, zinc and lead mine near Helena. The start-up is three months ahead of schedule and six mln dlrs under budget, the company said. Original capital cost of the mine was 57.5 mln dlrs, but came in at 51.5 mln dlrs, the company said. After a start-up period, the mill is expected to produce 106,000 ounces of gold, 1,700,000 ounces of silver, 26,000 tons of zinc and 5,700 tons of lead on an annual basis from 4,300,000 tons of ore, the company said. Reuter 
LOWER ASCS CORN PRICES TO AFFECT TEN STATES

The Agriculture Department's widening of Louisiana gulf differentials will affect county posted prices for number two yellow corn in ten states, a USDA official said. All counties in Iowa will be affected, as will counties which use the gulf to price corn in Illinois, Indiana, Tennessee, Kentucky, Missouri, Mississippi, Arkansas, Alabama and Louisiana, said Ron Burgess, Deputy Director of Commodity Operations Division for the USDA. USDA last night notified the grain industry that effective immediately, all gulf differentials used to price interior corn would be widened on a sliding scale basis of four to eight cts, depending on what the differential is. USDA's action was taken to lower excessively high posted county prices for corn caused by high gulf prices. "We've been following this Louisiana gulf situation for a month, and we don't think it's going to get back in line in any nearby time," Burgess said. Burgess said USDA will probably narrow back the gulf differentials when and if Gulf prices recede. "If we're off the mark now because we're too high, wouldn't we be as much off the mark if we're too low?" he said. While forecasting more adjustments if Gulf prices fall, Burgess said no other changes in USDA's price system are being planned right now. "We don't tinker. We don't make changes lightly, and we don't make changes often," he said. Reuter 
C.O.M.B. <COQ> TO HAVE OPTIONS ON AMEX

C.O.M.B Inc commenced trading put and call options on the American Stock Exchange, according to the Exchange. The company's options will trade with initial expiration months of April, May, July and October, with position and exercise limits at 5,500 contracts on the same side of the market, according to the Exchange. Reuter 
DROUGHT CUTS CHINESE WHEAT CROP -- USDA REPORT

Drought has resulted in a reduction in China's estimated wheat crop this year to 87.0 mln tonnes, 2.0 mln below last year's harvest, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Peking said in a field report. The report, dated March 25, said imports in the 1987/88 season are projected at 8.0 mln tonnes, 1.0 mln tonnes above the the current season's estimate. Imports from the United States are estimated at 1.5 mln tonnes compared to only 150,000 tonnes estimated for the 1986/87 year, it said. After travelling to major wheat producing areas and obtaining more information on the planted area, the total planted area was estimated down 290,000 hectares due to the dry fall, it said. The report said to compensate for the below normal precipitation irrigation has increased as has the use of fertilizer. While there are pockets where irrigation is not possible, most of the wheat crop has access to some water and therefore has emerged from dormancy and is doing well, the report said. It said scattered rain in many parts of China in the past 10 days has improved the situation but information on hail damage in Anhui is incomplete. Reuter 
U.S. TELLS INDIA IT CAN BUY SUPERCOMPUTER

The United States told India it could purchase a supercomputer because U.S. concerns over a possible security breach had been removed. U.S. officials said the United States did not specify which supercomputer it was willing to sell but had offered India a choice. They declined to comment on a newspaper report that the United States wanted to sell India a computer less powerful than the Indians had sought. They said the United States was awaiting a response from New Delhi. The New York Times, quoting unnamed government and industry officials, said the United States wanted to sell a weaker-model supercomputer to India. U.S. and Indian negotiatiors reached a tentative agreement in December on security precautions for the sale of the computer, which has a wide variety of military applications. "We have told the Indians that we ratify the tentative agreement reached in December," a U.S. official said. India proposed to use the supercomputer to analyze weather patterns to forecast monsoons. The sale of a U.S. supercomputer to a non-Western nation is rare. This transaction was seen as a test of a technology-sharing agreement signed by Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and President Reagan in 1985. The American concern was that the advanced technology might fall into the hands of the Soviet Union, which is India's main weapons supplier. One condition calls for U.S. personnel to service the computer in India for three years, a Pentagon spokesman said. The spokesman predicted the negotiations, which also involved the State Department, could be quickly resolved. The only countries which make the supercomputer are the United States and Japan. In New Delhi, Indian officials told Reuters that a U.S. offer had been made. "An announcement will be made in 10 days to two weeks time," an official said. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
MARINE MIDLAND <MM> MAY RECLASSIFY BRAZIL LOANS

Marine Midland Banks Inc said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it may reclassify as "nonperforming" 359 mln dlrs of medium- and long-term loans to Brazil. The company added that it expects first quarter 1987 earnings to be "down moderately" from year-earlier levels. "Continued suspension of interest payments on the medium- and long-term debt could result in such loans being classified as nonperforming and placed on nonaccrual," it said. However, it added its belief that it was "premature to decide at this time" whether to reclassify the loans. Brazil announced Feb. 20 that it was temporarily suspending interest payments on all its medium- and long-term foreign bank debt. Marine Midland said its total Brazil outstandings as of the end of 1986 were 653 mln dlrs, including 359 mln dlrs of medium- and long-term loans and 294 mln dlrs of short-term outstandings. As of Dec. 31, it had interest receivable of about five mln dlrs on its medium- and long-term Brazil outstandings. If debt restructuring talks between Brazil and its creditor banks are not completed by the end of the third quarter, the company estimated Brazil's action would reduce its net income for the year by about 22 mln dlrs. In the first quarter of 1986, Marine Midland reported record earnings of 38.2 mln dlrs, bolstered by certain non-recurring securities gains. It said it expected lower first quarter 1987 earnings because the money market cost of funds had increased, "narrowing net interest spreads somewhat." It said the earnings projection was based on "preliminary" 1987 data. Reuter 
JAMAICA BUYS U.S. PL-480 CORN, WHEAT AND RICE

Jamaica bought U.S. corn, wheat and rice at its tender earlier this week using PL-480 funds, a U.S. Department of Agriculture official said. The purchase consisted of the following cargoes - - Cargill sold 1,503.5 tonnes of number two soft red winter (SRW) wheat for May 5/30 shipment at 117.44 dlrs per tonne FOB Gulf ports. - Continental Grain 8,250 tonnes of number two northern spring/dark northern spring (NS/DNS) wheat (14.5 pct protein) for April 15/May 10 at 123.97 dlrs FOB Gulf, excluding Brownsville. - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for June 12/July 7 at 103.43 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two NS/DNS wheat (14.0 pct protein) for May 25/June 20 at 121.89 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Cargill 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for April 10/May 5 at 120.88 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Cargill 8,469.5 tonnes number two SRW wheat for May 5/30 at 117.44 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Louis Dreyfus 4,500 tonnes number three yellow corn (15.0 pct maximum moisture) for April 10/May 5 at 76.09 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn April 20/May 15 at 75.89 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn May 10/June 5 at 75.49 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn June 1/25 at 75.49 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Loius Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes number two yellow corn (14.5 pct maximum moisture) for Apirl 10/May 5 at 76.29 dlrs FOB Gulf. - Louis Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes same corn for May 10/June 5 at 75.68 dlrs FOB Gulf. Exporters have not received final PL-480 approval on their sale of a total of 9,500 tonnes of U.S. number five or better long grain brown rice (10 pct maximum broken) for April 10/May 25 shipments. But the USDA official said he saw no hold-up in obtaining that approval. Reuter 
NOBLE AFFILIATES <NBL> FINDS NATURAL GAS

Noble Affiliates Inc said it found natural gas on Ship Shoal 80, located about 10 miles offshore Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico. The discovery well, Samedan Oil Corp's OCS-G 5537 Well Number One, was drilled in 25 feet of water to a total depth of 7,500 feet and found 38 feet of net gas pay in a 48-foot gross sand interval, the company said. The well tested gas at a rate of 6.2 mln cubic feet a day through a 26/64-inch choke with 1,548 pounds flowing tubing pressure. Gas sales should begin in the first quarter of 1988, it said. Samedan, a Noble unit, is operator and owns a 60 pct working interest in the well. Other owners are a New England Electric System <NES> unit, with a 25 pct stake, and Southwestern Energy Production Co, with 15 pct. Reuter 
ANALYSTS PEG U.S. COTTON SEEDINGS 10.6 MLN ACRES

U.S. cotton farmers are likely to plant about 10.6 mln acres in the coming season, based on an average of estimates offered by cotton market analysts gearing up for the U.S. Agriculture Department's 1987 planting intentions report next Tuesday. The annual report gives cotton traders their first glimpse of what U.S. production might be in the 1987/88 season, which begins August 1. Trade and commission house forecasts ranged from 10.2 to 10.9 mln acres. On March 18 of last year, the USDA reported that cotton farmers in 1986 intended to plant 9.71 mln acres. Four months later, the USDA estimated that 9.67 mln acres had been planted as of June 1. By January, its estimate of 1986 planted acreage nationwide was 10.06 mln. Analysts said their forecasts for even greater acreage in 1987 were spurred in part by belief that this year's good demand and firm prices will be repeated next year. Analysts said those factors make cotton a profitable crop. "With cotton more attractive price-wise, I think there is going to be a switch in acreage from soybeans to cotton. Soybeans are dirt cheap," said Lisbeth Keefe of Cargill Investor Services, whose comments were echoed by other cotton market specialists. Changes in the U.S. cotton program also could lead to increased acreage, analysts said. They recalled that under the 1986 program, cotton farmers who used part of their crop as collateral for government loans were not responsible for the cost of storing that cotton in government warehouses. But under the 1987 plan, the government will not pick up the tab for storage. Analysts said the change will discourage some farmers from participating in the program, which could result in more cotton. "The cotton program stipulates a mandatory set-aside of 25 pct of a farmer's base acreage," noted Judy Weissman of Shearson Lehman Brothers. But farmers who elect not to participate in the program are free to plant all the acreage they have. Some analysts said cotton farmers in the high-yielding Western states would be most likely to steer clear of the program. "Western acreage should be up at least 20 pct," said one commission house analyst, whose estimate was based in part on forecasts made by the National Cotton Council during its annual meeting in late January. But others disagreed. "I think some Western growers have decided they should be in the program for security reasons. There's a lot of comfort in knowing you'll be guaranteed the government's loan price of 52.25 cents a lb. Anyone outside the program is subject to the wiles of the market," said Walter Brown, market analyst for a major California cotton producer. Some cotton specialists said their expectations for increased acreage might not be verified in Tuesday's planting intentions report. "Anything the USDA is announcing now is based on information they gathered before their cotton program was announced (on March 20)," one analyst cautioned. She said traders will get a better idea of next year's cotton output when the USDA's planted acreage report is released on July 9. Brown took that opinion a step further. "I don't think planted acreage is important. What counts is the abandonment rate," the difference between acreage planted and acreage harvested. Brown said the abandonment rate this year was "pretty high" at 15.5 pct because of weather problems in key producing states. "More normal would be about six pct," he said. Reuter 
TALKING POINT/GOLD

The price of gold bullion and share prices of North American gold stocks are benefiting from continued weakness in the U.S. dollar, analysts said. "There's been a tug of war between the (currency) speculators and the central banks over the U.S. dollar and it looks like the game has gone to the speculators," said John Ing at Maison Placements Canada Inc. The dollar remained close to post-World War II lows today against the Japanese yen despite buying by several central banks, including the Federal Reserve, dealers said. A drop in the dollar means uncertainty and gold is the traditional hedge against uncertainty, Ing noted. Another analyst, Richard Cohen at Brown Baldwin Nisker Ltd, noted that "a lot of foreign investors are holding U.S. dollars. If they see they are losing money, they move back into gold." A dollar decline also has inflationary implications, Ing said, adding that Maison Placements sees inflation rising to a four pct annual rate from the current level of about three pct. Ing predicts gold will peak at 510 dlrs this year from its current level of about 416 dlrs per ounce. Cohen sees an average price of 425 dlrs, and another analyst, Michael Pickens, at Yorkton Securities, puts the average at 450 dlrs, with a possible spike above 500 dlrs. However, gold stocks in the U.S. and Canada have risen far faster in recent months than the price of the metal itself, causing concern among analysts that a correction lies somewhere in the future. But for now, all analysts say there is no sign the buying pressure is slowing down. "The stocks have run an incredible way," Cohen said. On U.S. markets today, ASA Ltd <ASA> rose 4-1/8 to 61-1/2, Campbell Red Lake Mines <CRK> was up 1-3/8 and Newmont Gold <NGC> increased 1-1/2 to 31-1/4. The Toronto Stock Exchange gold index today was up 268 points at 8067.90. Hemlo Gold gained 1-1/4 at 26-3/4, LAC Minerals was up 1-5/8 at 41, Placer Development rose 1-1/4 at 43-3/8 and Lacana Mining gained 1 at 18. Ing pointed out that the TSE gold index has gained 51 pct since December 31, 1986, while the price of bullion has increased six pct. "Canadian golds have been the top performing index this year," he noted. In the U.S., there is "too much money chasing too few stocks," Pickens said. And many investing institutions such as pension funds and insurance companies still have excess cash, he added. Cohen also noted that today's silver price break through six dlrs an ounce indicates small investors are entering the precious metals market and he expects the ratio between gold and silver prices to narrow. Reuter 
U.S. PRICE DATA SUGGEST MODERATE INFLATION

Latest consumer price data indicate U.S. inflation will be moderate in 1987 even though it will be above last year's pace, economists said. "Inflation is not such a constructive factor as this time last year, but it's not building up a large head of steam," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the consumer price index for all urban consumers, rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 pct in February after a 0.7 pct January gain. Energy prices, which fired January's data with a three pct rise, advanced a more moderate 1.9 pct last month. The CPI came within the range of economists' expectations and had little direct impact on U.S. financial markets. Among the key components of the report, transportation prices rose 0.5 pct in February after a 1.5 pct January gain reflecting smaller price appreciation for motor fuels and declines in new car prices and finance charges. "There are no pronounced pressures at the retail level," said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Economists said the latest CPI supports existing expectations for an inflation rate of 3.5 to four pct in 1987. The CPI rose 1.1 pct from December 1985 to December 1986. Without last year's energy price drop, it rose 3.8 pct. Economists said that upward pressure on import prices as a result of the dollar's drop as well as the volatile energy component warrant attention in case gains in these areas become factored into the wider economic picture. "As long as those price rises do not become entrenched in cost of living adjustments contained in labor contracts, thus reducing international competitiveness, then the Federal Reserve would probably be willing to tolerate four pct inflation," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN FEBRUARY BY 1.9 PCT

Consumer energy costs rose 1.9 pct in February following a sharp rise last month, the Labor Department said. The February increase in the overall energy costs, including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 0.2 pct drop in December and a 3.0 pct rise in January, it said. Energy prices were 12.2 pct below year-ago levels. The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the cost of gasoline rose in February by 4.2 pct, after a 6.6 pct rise in January. Gasoline prices were nonetheless 18.0 pct below their levels as of February 1986. Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gas rose in February by 3.8 pct, putting it 14.9 pct under the year-ago figure. The index also showed that natural gas and electricity were unchanged last month, but down 3.5 pct from the February 1986 figure, the department said. The index has been updated o reflect 1982-84 consumption patterns; previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter 
PHILIPPINES CLINCHES DEBT DEAL, SOURCE SAYS

The Philippines has reached agreement with its bank advisory committee on a debt-rescheduling agreement after four weeks of talks, a source close to the Philippine delegation said. No details were available and bankers were not available to comment because meetings with the Philippine negotiators were still in progress. But a spokesman for Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co, which chairs the 12-bank Philippine advisory committee, said a press conference with finance minister Jaime Ongpin will begin at the bank's headquarters at 1430 EST/1930 GMT. "There is an agreement," the source close to the Philippine delegation said, adding that details would be announced at the press conference. Manila wants to reschedule about 3.6 billion dlrs of debt that falls due between 1987 and 1992 and to obtain easier terms on 5.8 billion dlrs of previously restructured debt. The talks have dragged on because of the banks' reluctance to accept interest payments partly in Philippine Investment Notes, PINs, instead of cash and because of Manila's insistence on an interest rate margin close to the 5/8 pct spread over Eurocurrency rates that it initially demanded. Reuter 
COLD AIR A THREAT TO SOME U.S. HARD WHEAT AREAS

A cold air mass working its way south from Canada may pose a threat to developing hard red winter wheat in Oklahoma, according to Eugene Krenzler, wheat specialist for the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension. "There is some threat. Some of the crop is far enough along so that it's probably vulnerable," Krenzler said. Accu Weather meteorologist Dale Mohler said cold air moving from the north could put temperatures in the middle 20's fahrenheit as early as tonight, depending on development of a low pressure area over southeast Colorado which could stall the system. If impeded by the low-pressure area, the cold air could hit Oklahoma and Texas as late as Monday morning. Temperatures could stay in the mid-20's for up to eight hours, Mohler said. Krenzler said less than 10 pct of the Oklahoma wheat crop has advanced to boot stage. The closer to that stage the more vulnerable the head of the wheat is to cold weather, he said. "We can handle probably an hour or so down to 25 or 26 degrees (fahrenheit)," Krenzler said, "as long as we don't have a lot of wind." "If we do get six hours down below 25 degrees I'd say we have a good chance of significant damage to the heads," he said. Krenzler said early planted stands in the north-central and southwestern parts of the state are probably most vulnerable. Crops in the panhandle of Oklahoma and Texas are less developed and have some snow cover protection from the cold, he noted. Reuter 
CORRECTED - C.O.M.B <CMCO> TO HAVE OPTIONS ON AMEX

C.O.M.B Inc commenced trading put and call options on the American Stock Exchange, according to the Exchange. The company's options will trade with a ticker symbol of <COQ> with initial expiration months of April, May, July and October, with position and exercise limits at 5,500 contracts on the same side of the market, according to the Exchange. (corrects ticker symbol in headline, which is symbol of company's options) Reuter 
HENLEY GROUP <HENG> UNIT WINS TAIWAN CONTRACT

Henley Group Inc's M.W. Kellogg Co unit said it was selected by <Chinese Petroleum Corp> to design, engineer and build a ethylene plant at Chinese Petroleum's Kaohsiung refinery in Taiwan. Terms of the contract were not disclosed, but Kellogg said the total cost of the plant will be 300 mln dlrs. Kellogg said engineering of the plant, which will have a capacity of 400,000 tonnes a year, is already underway and construction will begin in 1988. The plant will go into operation in 1990, Kellogg said. Reuter 
CME PROPOSES LIMITS ON BROKER TRADING RINGS

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) has proposed stringent limits on the portion of futures trading that can be conducted between "trading rings," or affiliated groups of floor brokers, according to a CME spokesman. Violators would be subject to fines of as much as 50,000 dlrs, the exchange said in a letter distributed to its members earlier this week. The proposal is one of the reforms the exchange's Board of Governors suggested to curb practices that have come under fire for unfairly limiting competition on the floor. Local traders claim that trading among broker "rings" violates the open-outcry system prevailing in the futures markets. Limits on ring trading would be applied floor-wide under the proposal. The other reforms, which address dual trading, would apply only to the Standard and Poor's 500 stock index futures pit. A debate over dual trading, the practice of trading for one's own account and filling customer orders, has arisen because many traders believe it can create a climate for trading abuses, especially in the extremely volatile stock index futures pit. Adoption of the Board of Governors' reforms hinges on an April 13 vote of CME members on a membership petition, signed by several hundred members in February, that would bar all dual trading at the exchange. Defeat of the petition is likely, according to a floor broker contacted by Reuters, who also said he welcomed the limits on the "ring" traders. If members reject the petition, that would open up the way for the Board of Governors' reforms. CME President William Brodsky said the need to curb broker group trading has grown "as the groups have gotten larger." "A lot of the individuals were losing business because they were faced with a large-scale competition. The Board began studying the problem about six months ago. Under the proposed reforms, members of a broker rings -- defined as brokers who share brokerage fees, revenues, expenses, a deck of customer orders or employee salary expenses -- would be barred from trading more than 15 pct of their personal trades with each other. Those found in violation would be subject to fines of up to 50,000 dlrs. Broker ring members would also be prohibited from trading more than 25 pct of customer orders with each other. Fines of up to 10,000 dlrs would be levied on violators. More stringent limits were proposed on individual trading than customer orders because "we don't want to negatively impact customer orders," Brodsky said. "On the other hand, the need to do a personal order is very different." Broker associations would also be limited to having no more than one member serving on an exchange disciplinary or pit committee. Reuter 
U.S. URGES RESTRAINT IN AEGEAN

The United States said it was doing what it could to ease tension in the Aegean as Greek and Turkish warships headed for a possible clash over oil drilling rights on the sea's continental shelf. State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters, "We have urged both sides to exercise restraint and avoid any actions which might exacerbate the situation." "In the light of the most recent developments, we are consulting with the parties and with other interested allies on means to reduce tensions," he added. Redman declined to elaborate on what Washington was doing, but he said an emergency meeting of NATO ambassadors in Brussels on the subject was only one path it was pursuing. He also refused to say which side was to blame for the renewed confrontation, saying Washington was still trying to ascertain all the facts, as Prime minister Andreas Papanderou said Greece was prepared to tackle any aggressor. "The crucial point here is that these are two friends and allies. We don't want to see tension rise and we are doing what we can to see if we can help here," Redman said. Reuter 
LABOR DEPT REPORTS U.S. REAL EARNINGS ROSE 0.6 PCT IN FEB AFTER BEING UNCHANGED IN JAN



U.S. REAL EARNINGS ROSE 0.6 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The average weekly earnings of U.S. workers after adjustment for inflation and seasonal changes rose 0.6 pct in February after being unchanged in January, the Labor department said. The department had earlier reported that real earnings fell 0.3 pct in January but revised the figure to show earnings unchanged. Between February this year and February, 1986, real earnings rose 0.5 pct, the department said. The rise in February real earnings resulted from a 0.5 pct increase in average hourly earnings and a 0.6 pct increase in average weekly hours. That was partly offset by a 0.4 pct rise in the consumer price index, which measures inflation, the department said. Before seasonal adjustment, weekly earnings last month averaged 307.59 dlrs, up from 305.13 dlrs in January and up from 300.66 dlrs in February, 1986. Reuter... 
U.S. BANKER PREDICTS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL THIS YEAR

A leading U.S. Banker said the dollar was likely to fall another five to 10 pct this year and an improvement in the huge American trade deficit would be only temporary at current world exchange rate levels. Kurt Viermetz, Worldwide Treasurer of <Morgan Guaranty Trust Co>, told Arab currency traders meeting here that the steady depreciation of the dollar had not gone far enough to rein in U.S. Deficits on a lasting basis. Speaking at the 14th annual congress of the Interarab Cambist Association, Viermetz said an agreement reached last month among major industrial nations to steady the dollar around current levels left many questions unanswered. "I cannot see any chance for a real turnaround (rise) in the dollar," Viermetz said. "I believe there is room for a further fall of five to 10 per cent in 1987." The United States, West Germany, Japan, France, Great Britain and Canada -- G-6 -- agreed in Paris in late February to stabilise major currencies around current levels. The accord came after months of transatlantic argument, with Tokyo and Bonn claiming Washington's policy of talking the dollar lower had made life impossible for West German and Japanese exporters. The Paris accord also brought a pause to the continued slide of the dollar engineered by a meeting in New York in September 1985 when industrial nations agreed to depress the value of the currency to help redress global trade imbalances. But Viermetz said Morgan Guaranty's economic models showed that with no further change in exchange rates -- and continued sluggish growth in West Germany and Japan -- the U.S. Trade deficit would improve only temporarily. He said the deficit might fall to 145 billion dlrs this year from 165 billion in 1986 and further improve to 120 billion in 1988 but by 1990, it would be back around 160 billion dlrs. "This is clearly unacceptable for the monetary authorities and politicians in Washington," he said. Viermetz said it was only natural that markets should attempt to test the credibility of the Paris accord, struck when the dollar was trading at about 1.83 marks and 152.50 yen. Immediately before the historic 1985 New York agreement or "Plaza Accord," the dollar had been trading at 2.84 marks and 240 yen. Viermetz said he believed major nations in Paris wanted to see the dollar hold within a "loose range" of 1.75 to 1.90 marks and 145 to 155 yen, with any attempt to push the U.S. Currency lower being countered by central bank intervention. The dollar ended in New York yesterday at 147.15/25 yen -- its lowest level against the Japanese currency in roughly 40 years. It closed at 1.8160/70 marks. Viermetz also said he did not see the U.S. Federal funds rate falling below six pct for fear of provoking an uncontrolled fall in the dollar. But at the same time, worries about the international debt crisis would mean there was little chance of a rise above 6-3/4 pct since this would increase loan costs to the third world. The Middle East foreign exchange conference brings together more than 200 traders and bank treasury chiefs from the Arab world and Arab banks in European and U.S. Financial centres. Formal discussions, which end today, have also centred on the role of Arab banks in world financial markets, with bankers urging them to adapt to a new global trend towards securitisation of business. Hikmat Nashashibi, President of the Arab Bankers Association, said Arab banks have to shake off their old mentality of commercial banking and concentrate more on investment banking. REUTER 
SOVIETS HAVE TESTED SS-18 MISSILE - WEINBERGER

U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the Soviet Union continues to grow in military strength and has tested its SS-18 intermediate-range missile. It was a "successful test so far as we know, and the next one of course is the follow-on to the SS-20," Weinberger told interviewers on the CNN television network. "They finished deploying the SS-20 some time last year. They are all ready well advanced on its follow-on. They never stop. That"s the lesson." "They continue to grow in all aspects: conventional, land, sea, air and nuclear," he said of Soviet military strength. REUTER 
GREECE SCRAPS U.S. BASE CLOSURE REQUEST

Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou has withdrawn a request to Washington to suspend operations at an American army base near Athens as a Greek-Turkish row over oil rights in the Aegean eased. A Turkish research ship which Greece had threatened to tackle if it sailed into disputed waters in the Aegean Sea kept to Turkish territorial waters yesterday, avoiding a potential clash. Papandreou expressed qualified optimism after briefing opposition leaders on Aegean developments early yesterday. The Greek government later withdrew Friday's request to Washington to close down its telecommunications base at Nea Makri, north of Athens, saying that the reasons which had prompted it to make the request were no longer valid. Under the terms of the U.S.-Greek bases accord, Greece has the right to ask for suspension of operations at times when its national interests are threatened. The row in the Aegean erupted after Turkey said it would search for oil round three Greek islands off its coast following an announcement from Greece that it planned to drill east of Thassos island after taking control of a Canadian-led oil consortium operating in the northern Aegean. Turkey accused Greece of breaching the 1976 Berne Agreement under which both sides agreed to preserve the status quo in the Aegean until their continental shelf dispute was settled. Athens says it considers the accord inactive. The Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a statement it had received an assurance from Greece that it would not carry out oil activities outside its territorial waters. Greece declined comment on the statement. Papandreou repeated an invitation to Turkey to take the long-standing continental shelf dispute to the International Court of Justice at The Hague. Conservative opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis said he had urged Papandreou to accept an offer from NATO General Secretary Lord Carrington to help resolve the row. REUTER 
U.S. SEES MORE HARMONY IN TALKS WITH FRANCE

The U.S. Expects more harmonious talks than usual during French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac's first official visit this week as frequently rancorous disputes between the two countries begin to fade. "The Libyan bombing is a thing of the past, the trade war didn't happen and we have reached reasonably good cooperation on terrorism," one U.S. Official told Reuters. "It looks like a reasonably harmonious visit in prospect, more harmonious than usual." Since taking office a year ago, Chirac has been obliged to deal with a series of potentially serious disputes with the United States. During the U.S. Bombing of alleged terrorist targets in Libya last April, France refused to allow British-based U.S. Planes to overfly its territory, forcing them to take a circuitous route. That angered Washington. The U.S. Officials, who asked not to be identified, said a year ago Washington felt the French were not taking strong enough action against terrorism. "Now they are. We're pleased and they are pleased that we are pleased," one said. More recently, a dispute over U.S. Access to the grain markets of Spain and Portugal after they joined the European Community threatened to become a trade war. In retaliation for what Washington saw as deliberate Community moves to exclude U.S. Grain, the United States was poised to impose swingeing tariffs on European Community food imports and a major trade war was averted at the last minute. Last week, the forces of President Hissene Habre of Chad, supported, trained and armed by Paris and Washington, scored a major success by pushing Libyan troops out of their last bases in northern Chad. A French official added: "There is also a common interest in getting Japan to cut its trade surplus with the rest of the world by opening up its markets." Although relations have improved markedly between the two countries, many irritants remain. At the top of the list is the Community's common agricultural policy (CAP). To Washington, as one official put it, "CAP is the root of all evil" in international food trade because it subsidises farmers and sells vast amounts of excess produce at below world prices, thereby eating into U.S. Markets. REUTER 
PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER

U.S. roastings of green coffee in the week ended March 21 were about 250,000 (60-kilo) bags, including that used for soluble production, compared with 195,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about 300,000 bags in the week ended March 14, George Gordon Paton and Co Inc reported. It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total 3,845,000 bags, compared with 4,070,000 bags by this time last year. Reuter 
PHILADELPHIA EXCHANGE TO EXTEND HOURS FOR ASIA

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), a leading trader of currency options, plans to extend its trading hours to serve Australasian and Far Eastern markets, exchange president Nicholas Giordano said. He told reporters the PHLX will open a new session between 1900 and 2300 hours U.S. EST from the beginning of the third quarter this year. The PHLX is also opening an office in Hong Kong to serve clients in the region and educate financial markets about the advantages of currency options, Giordano said. Giordano was in Sydney to start an Asian-Pacific tour by exchange executives promoting the hedging benefits of the exchange-trade currency option market against existing over-the-counter option trading during the local working day. Currency options pioneered by the PHLX in 1982 had become an accepted means of hedging against foreign exchange risk and had grown in popularity, he said. The PHLX now offered options in eight currencies, including a new Australian dollar option, and traded an average 42,000 contracts daily with underlying open interest of more than 30 billion U.S. Dlrs. Giordano said the exchange had been impressed with the performance of its Australian dollar contract, which since its introduction last year had regularly topped the French franc as the third most popular traded option, with up to 8,000 contracts traded daily. Having the Philadelphia exchange open during the Asia-Pacific market day would open new hedging opportunities, set a truer level for over-the-counter option trading, increase arbitraging opportunities and give corporations and treasuries access to a currency option market of much greater depth and liquidity with the security of a clearing house, he said. REUTER 
U.S. BUDGET DIRECTOR SAYS NO TAX HIKE COMPROMISE

Budget director James Miller said President Reagan will not compromise on his vow not to raise taxes despite pressure from Congress. "No, the President has been very clear about that," Miller said on NBC's "Today" program. "The President's not going to give in." When asked if Reagan's pledge not to raise tax rates meant he might go along with some tax increase not affecting rates, Miller replied, "No, I wouldn't read anything into the word tax rate. Of course that's the most important thing. But the President's not going to go along with a tax increase." REUTER 
GREECE SCRAPS U.S. BASE CLOSURE REQUEST

Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou has withdrawn a request to Washington to suspend operations at an American army base near Athens as a Greek-Turkish row over oil rights in the Aegean eased. A Turkish research ship which Greece had threatened to tackle if it sailed into disputed waters in the Aegean Sea kept to Turkish territorial waters yesterday, avoiding a potential clash. Papandreou expressed qualified optimism after briefing opposition leaders on Aegean developments early yesterday. The Greek government later withdrew Friday's request to Washington to close down its telecommunications base at Nea Makri, north of Athens, saying that the reasons which had prompted it to make the request were no longer valid. Under the terms of the U.S.-Greek bases accord, Greece has the right to ask for suspension of operations at times when its national interests are threatened. The row in the Aegean erupted after Turkey said it would search for oil round three Greek islands off its coast following an announcement from Greece that it planned to drill east of Thassos island after taking control of a Canadian-led oil consortium operating in the northern Aegean. Turkey accused Greece of breaching the 1976 Berne Agreement under which both sides agreed to preserve the status quo in the Aegean until their continental shelf dispute was settled. Athens says it considers the accord inactive. The Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a statement it had received an assurance from Greece that it would not carry out oil activities outside its territorial waters. Greece declined comment on the statement. Papandreou repeated an invitation to Turkey to take the long-standing continental shelf dispute to the International Court of Justice at The Hague. Conservative opposition leader Constantine Mitsotakis said he had urged Papandreou to accept an offer from NATO General Secretary Lord Carrington to help resolve the row. REUTER 
U.S. BUDGET DIRECTOR SAYS NO TAX RISE COMPROMISE

Budget director James Miller said President Reagan will not compromise on his vow not to raise taxes despite pressure from Congress. "No, the President has been very clear about that," Miller said on NBC's "Today" program. "The President's not going to give in." When asked if Reagan's pledge not to raise tax rates meant he might go along with some tax increase not affecting rates, Miller replied, "No, I wouldn't read anything into the word tax rate. Of course that's the most important thing. But the President's not going to go along with a tax increase." REUTER 
RLI CORP <RLI> TO BEGIN TRADING ON THE NYSE

RLI Corp, a specialty insurance company, said the New York Stock Exchange has cleared it to begin trading its common stock on the exchange effective May 8. RLI said it is currently trading on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (NASDAQ) under the symbol <RLIC>. RLI's new symbol will be <RLI>, the company said. Reuter 
NASD STARTS SEARCH FOR NEW PRESIDENT

The <National Association of Securities Dealers Inc> said it has named a search committee to seek a replacement for outgoing president Gordon S. Macklin, who recently announced plans to become chairman of <Hambrecht and Quist>. Reuter 
GLOBAL RAISES HEAVY FUELS PRICES

Global Petroleum Corp said today it raised its posted prices for numbers six fuel cargoes in the new york harbor 70 cts to 1.60 dlrs per barrel, depending on grade. Effective today, the new prices are: 0.3 pct sulphur 22.50 dlrs, up 1.25; 0.5 pct sulphur 21.85 dlrs, up 1.60; one pct sulphur 20.10 dlrs, up 70 cts; two pct sulphur 19.85, up 75 cts; 2.2 pct sulphur 19.25 dlrs, up 90 cts; 2.5 pct sulphur 18.80 dlrs, up 1.20, the company said. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
U.S. SEES NO NEW COFFEE AGREEMENT TALKS SOON

The United States does not expect the executive board meeting of the International Coffee Organization, ICO, to call for a new round of negotiations on reinstating coffee quotas, a U.S. government official said. The official, a member of the U.S. delegation to ICO talks earlier this year, said no new coffee agreement talks are expected because there is no indication the negotiating positions of major producers and consumers have changed. The U.S. still demands, as a condition of reimposition of coffee quotas, that "objective criteria" be set for establishing quotas, said the U.S. official, who asked not to be identified. Brazil, the major producer, insists on quotas based on a traditional formula. The U.S. remains open to a negotiating meeting but only if some new flexibility is apparent from major countries, the official said. The ICO executive board meets tomorrow in London. Reuter 
TRADE SEES U.S. CORN EXPORTS UP, WHEAT/BEANS OFF

Grain traders and analysts expect lower wheat and soybean exports and higher corn exports than a year ago in the USDA's export inspection report today. Corn export guesses ranged from 27.0 mln to 32.0 mln bushels, compared with the 27.6 mln inspected last week and 20.5 mln a year ago. Soybean export guesses ranged from 14.0 mln to 16.0 mln, up from the 13.4 mln inspected last week but below the 25.5 mln reported a year ago. Wheat estimates ranged from 11.0 mln to 14.0 mln bushels, compared with 12.0 mln reported last week and 18.3 mln a year ago. Reuter 
DOW<DOW> RAISES STYRENE-BUTADIENE LATEX PRICES

Dow Chemical Co said it increased prices by nine cts a pound (solids) for styrene-butadiene latex and plastic pigments, effective May One. Dow did not release the percentage increase. It said the increase will affect the floor covering markets, paper, paperboard and specialty markets. It said the increase is in addition to a previously announced seven cts a pound (solids) increase, effective March One. Reuter 
GOTABANKEN AND UNIT MAY BE DOWNGRADED BY MOODY'S

Moody's Investors Service Inc said it may downgrade 2.2 billion crowns of debt of <Gotabanken> and its unit, Gotabanken Inc. The rating agency cited concerns over the company's asset quality. Gotabanken was Sweden's fourth-largest commercial bank in 1985 based on consolidated assets of 45.4 billion crowns. Under review for possible downgrade are Gotabanken's Prime-1 short-term deposits and the unit's same-rated commercial paper. Reuter 
NYSE SAYS SANTA FE <SFX> NO RESPONSE YET ON STOCK

The New York Stock Exchange said Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp has not yet responded to the Exchange's inquiries about the unusual activity in the company's stock. The stock was trading at 38-1/2, up 2-3/8 on volume of 848,200 shares. The Exchange said it contacted the company to request that it issue a public statement as to whether any corporate developments could explain the activity in its stock. Reuter 
FED WILL BUY BILLS FOR CUSTOMER AFTER AUCTION

The Federal Reserve said it will enter the U.S. Government securities market after the 1300 EST weekly bill auction to purchase around 900 mln dlrs of Treasury bills for customers, a spokesman said. He said the Fed will purchase bills with maturities from May through September 10. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed announced the operation. Reuter 
NYSE SAYS SANTA FE <SFX> DECLINES COMMENT

The New York Stock Exchange said Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp declined to comment on inquiries regarding the unusual activity in its stock. Earlier, analysts and traders said the stock rose sharply after Henley Group <HENG> disclosed in a securities and Exchange Commission filing that it holds almost eight mln shares in the railroad and real estate conglomerate. The stock was trading at 38-3/4, up 2-5/8 on early afternoon turnover of over one million shares. Reuter 
U.S. CORPORATE FINANCE - NEW ZEALAND DLR FRNS

Floating-rate notes denominated in a foreign currency, a relatively new wrinkle on Wall Street, will probably be issued infrequently because the so-called "window of opportunity" opens and closes quickly, traders say. "In just two days we had as many issues. As a result, the market became glutted," said one trader. He said the window depends more on supply than on foreign exchange or interest rate risk, at least for the moment. "Obviously, currency risk is important. But there is a limited number of investors right now for the paper," he said. On Thursday, Bear, Stearns and Co sole-managed a 100 mln New Zealand dlr offering of three-year floating-rate notes issued by Ford Motor Credit Co, a unit of Ford Motor Co <F>. The initial rate for the notes will be set on April 15, and quarterly after that, at 200 basis points below the 90-day New Zealand bank bill rate. They are non-callable for life. This followed by a week another Bear Stearns-led offering of the same amount of New Zealand dollar notes for Dow Chemical Co <DOW>. The initial rate was also to be initially set on April 15, and quarterly after that, at 340 basis points below the same 90-day New Zealand rate. Because the Dow Chemical notes carried an interest rate floor of 17 pct, the issue saw strong investor demand, underwriters said. But the Ford Credit notes and Friday's offering of 130 mln New Zealand dlrs of floating-rate notes due 1990 issued by General Electric Co's <GE> General Electric Credit Corp via Prudential-Bache Securities Inc, did not have such a floor. "Obviously, the two firms did not want to issue floaters and face the risk of New Zealand rates falling sharply," an underwriter away from the syndicates said. He and others noted that the New Zealand 90-day rate was 27 pct late last week. An underwriter familiar with the Dow Chemical deal pointed out that because of the interest rate and currency swaps Dow did, the issuer felt comfortable setting a rate floor. Domestic offerings of foreign currency denominated date first surfaced in Fall 1985. By using currency and rate swaps, companies can sell debt that pays a high interest rate in a foreign currency like Australian or New Zealand dollars. But the issuers actually realize savings on borrowing costs. "I would say that every company which issued foreign currency debt saved some basis points when compared to same-maturity plain vanilla U.S. issues," an analyst said. Investors, mainly institutions, were attracted to the early issues because of the high interest rates. They were willing to absorb foreign currency risk until mid-1986, when sharp slides posted by the Australian and New Zealand dollars brought such issuance to a quick halt. It was not until late last year, after the currencies stabilized, that companies again started issuing debt denominated in Australian and New Zealand dollars. But many investors have still shied away from the debt, remembering the mid-1986 downturn of the Australian and New Zealand dollars, analysts noted. To attract some of those investors back to the fold, underwriters like Bear Stearns decided to structure the foreign currency issues as floating rate debt, sources said. This occurred against a backdrop of uncertainty over the course of U.S. interest rates for the intermediate term, and predictions by a number of economists that Treasury yields would rise in the second half of the year, the sources noted. A Bear Stearns officer said more than half of the Ford Credit notes were sold by late Friday afternoon, the second day of offering. "That is quicker than some recent fixed-rate New Zealand dollar note issues," he said. However, underwriters away from the Bear Stearns syndicate said the issue may have sold even faster if Prudential-Bache did not offer the General Electric Credit notes on Friday. They pointed out that the Ford notes were rated A-1 by Moody's Investors and AA-minus by Standard and Poor's, while the General Electric notes, which had the same interest rate terms and were also non-callable to maturity, carried top-flight AAA ratings by both agencies. "We have sold 20 to 25 pct of the GE notes. For first-day sales on a Friday afternoon, I'm happy with the results," an officer on Prudential-Bache's syndicate desk said. Investors pay the U.S. dollar equivalent of the foreign currency-denominated notes, underwriters said. Investment bankers said the next floating-rate issue of New Zealand or Australian dollar-denominated debt is probably a few weeks away. "I would like to underwrite a deal a day. But with the Dow, Ford and GE offerings, the marketplace has had enough for the time being," the Prudential-Bache officer admitted. Meanwhile, IDD Information Services said the 30-day corporate visible supply fell to 3.29 billion dlrs last week from 3.98 billion dlrs in the previous week. Reuter 
USLICO <USC> STARTS TRADING ON NYSE

USLICO Corp said its common stock has started trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock was formerly traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
U.S. REGULATORS TO CONSIDER CBT EVENING SESSION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, said that on April 15 it will consider the Chicago Board of Trade's proposal to establish night trading. The Chicago exchange hopes to begin night trading at the end of the month. The proposed trading session -- which would be the first in the United States -- would extend from 1700 to 2100 local time (2300 to 0300 GMT). CFTC also said that on April 22 it will consider the Philadelphia Board of Trade's application to trade futures on the Australian dollar and the New York Cotton Exchange's application to trade the five-year U.S. Treasury Index. Reuter 
CRUDE OIL NETBACKS UP IN U.S., MEDITERRANEAN

Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose slightly in the U.S. and the Mediterranean last Friday from the previous week but were lower elsewhere, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline. The soft tone to refining margins reflects large worldwide stocks of petroleum products and thin trading activity, traders said. In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by as much as 26 cts a barrel for West Texas Intermediate, an increase of 1.4 pct from the previous Friday, while sour crudes, such as Alaska North Slope, were up one pct. In the Mediterranean, netback values were up 17 cts to 22 cts a barrel, with Arab Light up 17 cts a barrel to 18.62 dlrs, a 0.9 pct increase from the previous Friday and Urals were up 22 cts a barrel to 19.16 dlrs, a 1.2 pct increase. But netbacks for crude oil refined in Northern Europe was generally lower with Brent valued at 18.89 dlrs, off 30 cts from the previous friday, and Bonny Light was off 17 cts to 19.58 dlrs a barrel. Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower, with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. On the U.S. West Coast, however, netback values for ANS CIF L.A. were weaker with weak gasoline prices sending the yield at cracking plants down 68 cts to 18.42 dlrs from the previous Friday, as shown below in dlrs a barrel. TOPPING.........15.63......16.10......14.30 CRACKING........18.42......19.10......16.86 The Mediterranean region also showed netback values rising last Friday over the previous week with the largest gains shown by Es Sider and the heavier Urals crude oil, which were each up 22 cts a barrel last Friday to 19.40 dlrs and 19.16 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Netback values for the mediterranean region are shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ES SIDER........19.40......19.18......16.44 ARAB LIGHT......18.61......18.44......15.52 IRAN LT.........19.25......19.08......16.16 KUWAIT..........18.51......18.33......15.42 URALS cif.......19.16......18.94......16.07 Netbacks in Northern Europe's refinery region were lower last friday from the previous week with Brent falling 1.6 pct to 18.89 dlrs a barrel. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Northern Europe are shown below in dlrs a barrel. ................MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 BRENT...........18.89......19.19......16.77 BONNY LIGHT.....19.58......19.75......17.15 ARAB LIGHT......18.49......18.52......16.07 URALS CIF.......19.02......18.98......16.54 Refinery netbacks in Singapore were also lower with heavier and sour crudes weakest. Arab Heavy dropped 10 cts to 16.63 dlrs a barrel and Dubai was off 12 cts to 18.09 dlrs. Netbacks for other grades of oil refined in Singapore are shown below in dlrs a barrel. GRADE...........MAR 27.....MAR 20.....FEB 27 ATTAKA..........19.23......19.24......16.72 ARAB LIGHT......18.00......18.10......15.55 OMAN............18.21......18.25......16.31 DUBAI...........18.09......18.21......15.86 ARAB HEAVY......16.63......16.73......14.24 Reuter 
U.S. REPLACING ALL MARINE SECURITY GUARDS IN MOSCOW

The United States said it was replacing all 28 Marine security guards at its embassy in Moscow after two who were stationed there were arrested on spying charges. Deputy State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley said the Marines would be rotated back to the United States by the end of April to facilitate a three-pronged government investigation now underway. She told reporters the move -- replacing an entire marine security guard contingent -- was unprecedented. Reuter 
CHIRAC URGES EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY PLAN

French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac called on leading Western nations to set up a mechanism which would put a stop to volatile foreign exchange rates. In a speech prepared for delivery to businessmen and bankers in New York, Chirac said said monetary stablility was a key element in bringing the world financial system back to health. "The industrialized states should agree to set up a monetary framework which would provide the necessary stability as well as sufficient flexibility to allow ajustments when needed," Chirac said. "This requires a monitoring and alert mechanism which would permit a timely and concerted reaction," he said. The prime minister, on the first day of a three-day visit to the United States, said the February 22 Paris accords agreed by the "Group of Five" industrial nations should serve as a basis for the new mechanism. Under the Paris accords, the United States, Britain, France, West Germany, and Japan agreed to stabilize exchange rates around existing parities. But, only five weeks after they were signed, they have failed to stop the dollar tumbling to record lows against the yen. Chirac said the means to monitor exchange rate movements were readily available. "What is needed is the political will to use these more completely, in the spirit of the Paris accords... " In other points of his speech, Chirac called on countries with high trade surpluses -- an apparent reference to Japan -- to open up their markets and stimulate demand. He warned the United States that protectionist measures as debated in the U.S. Congress would bring a tough response from the 12-nation European Community. "Europe is very sensitive to every rumour of protectionism. It will react with energy and solidarity because it does not want to ruin its chances of recovery." The Reagan administration is seeking to tone down a tough trade bill which if passed would require the president to retaliate against countries deemed to discriminate against U.S. Goods. Chirac also appealed for an effort from developed countries to help the Third World by reducing interest rates and stimulating commodity prices. "No stock-pile mechanism can run counter to the underlying trend of the market. These agreements must be complemented by financial aid to the developing countries hardest hit by the decline." Chirac said he hoped concrete steps could be reached on these issues at forthcoming international meetings -- the International Monetary Fund/World Bank session in Washington and the June summit of seven leading western nations in Venice. Reuter 
VIDEO DISPLAY <VIDE> IN INDIAN JOINT VENTURE

Video Display Corp said it signed agreements with <Glowtronics <Ltd> to jointly build a manufacturing plant in the state of Karnatake, India. Video Display said the plant, in which it will own a 40 pct equity interest, will make cathodes, filament heatrers and electron gun assembles for television sets. Reuter 
LOWER REFINERY OPERATIONS SEEN PRODUCING PROFITS

U.S. refiners will have to reduce operations if they want to be profitable this year, said industry officials attending the National Petroleum Refiners Association meeting here. "If the refining sector can discipline itself to refine about 12 mln barrels of crude oil a day, we have a chance to pull down inventories to acceptable levels by the second quarter, said Archie Dunham, executive vice president of petroluem products at Conoco Inc "If not, the industry will have a tough 1987," he added. Last week's American Petroleum Institute report said that U.S. refining capacity rose three pct to 78.7 pct of capacity, with crude oil runs at 12.2 mln barrels per day for the week ended March 20. The API said that with the higher crude oil runs, distillate and gasoline inventories were sharply above year-ago levels. Gasoline stocks were at 245.6 mln barrels, some 17.2 mln barrels above year-ago levels. Distillate stocks, at 108.7 mln barrels, are 10.9 mln barrels above last year's level, the API said. Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum Corp <CNP> told Reuters that unless refining and marketing return to profitability, oil companies will have to rely on downstream operations to produce an acceptable level of earnings. "The jump in refining capacity is a concern if it continues," said Kenneth Buckler, executive vice president of refining and marketing at <Total Petroleum Co>, a U.S. subsidiary of Cie Francaise Des Petroles of France. Refineries should operate near 75 pct of capacity given the current level of demand but the operating level should increase as gasoline demand picks up in the next quarter, Buckler said. Dunham said the potential operable capacity of U.S. refineries should also be cut about 500,000 barrels of crude per day. "I expect to see the shutdown of more small refineries over the next five years," he said, adding that these facilities refine between 10,000 and 30,000 barrels of crude oil per day. The API said U.S. operations have the capacity to refine 15.6 mln bpd of crude. Reuter 
<ELECTROLUX AB> UNIT TO BUILD WAREHOUSE

The North Carolina Department of Commerce said Electrolux AB of Sweden's White Consolidated Industries subsidiary will locate a new 15 mln dlr 352,000 square foot national appliance parts distribution center at Asheville, N.C. It said the center will handle parts for Frigidaire, Tappan, Kelvinator, Gibson, Vesta and White-Westinghouse product lines. Each now has a separate distribution center. The department said construction will start immediately and should be finished in late 1987. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORT INSPECTIONS, IN THOUS BUSHELS  SOYBEANS 17,683 WHEAT 20,717 CORN 36,581



REGULATORS TO CONSIDER CBT EVENING SESSION

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, said that on April 15 it will consider the Chicago Board of Trade's proposal to establish night trading. The Chicago exchange hopes to begin night trading at the end of the month. The proposed trading session -- which would be the first in the United States -- would extend from 1700 to 2100 local time (2300 to 0300 GMT). CFTC also said that on April 22 it will consider the Philadelphia Board of Trade's application to trade futures on the Australian dollar and the New York Cotton Exchange's application to trade the five-year U.S. Treasury Index. Reuter 
NEWMONT MINING <NEM> SEEKS SOUTH AFRICAN SALE

Newmont Mining Corp will seek favorable terms for sale of its South African investments, the proxy statement for its annual meeting said. Recommending that shareholders vote against a proposal calling expeditious withdrawal from South Africa, the proxy said "a quick sale could be akin to abandonment" because of the depressed state of metal mining stocks and exchange rates on capital withdrawals from South Africa. The proxy said the company gave close consideration to alternatives to the continued holdings of four existing South African metal mining investments during the past year. Pointing out "a measurable number of investors incline to support" resolutions calling for South African divestment as part of their effort to avoid pressure to sell a given stock, the company said "this largely unspoken agenda of many supporters of disinvestment does receive attention by the corporation." Because of this, Newmont Mining said it "is prepared to consider, and will seek, favorable terms for sale of its South African investments," but asked stockholders to reject the resolution calling for withdrawal and leave the matter to the continuing judgment of management. Reuter 
U.S. STEEL PRODUCTION ROSE 1.3 PCT IN WEEK

Steel production rose 1.3 pct to 1,696,000 short tons in the week ended March 28 from 1,675,000 short tons, the American Iron and Steel Institute reported Production so far this year was 18,810,000 tons adjusted off 14.6 pct from 22,016,000 tons produced by the nations mills a year ago. Utilization for the week of March 28 was 78.7 pct and for the week of March 21 was was 77.8 pct. Reuter 
CSC INDUSTRIES UNIT TO INCREASE PRICES

Copperweld Steel Co <CPSL>, a subsidiary of CSC Industries Inc., said it will increase from market price levels its bar, semi-finished and leaded products effective July One. Hot rolled and cold finished bar wil be increase 25 dlrs per net ton, while semi-finished products will be increased 15 dlrs per net ton, the company said. Anticipated higher energy and raw material costs, combined with current market trends, were cited by the company as reasons for the increases. Reuter 
USDA TO UPDATE WINTER WHEAT ACREAGE TOMORROW

The U.S. Agriculture Department said it will update its estimate of winter wheat seeded acreage in the prospective planting report, scheduled for release at 1500 est (2100 gmt) tomorrow, March 31. The original estimate of seedings of winter wheat was published in January. It said the new survey is possible because of the new integrated nationwide survey program that uses probability sampling procedures that combine information from farmers operating in selected areas and farmers identified on special lists. Reuter 
U.S. SUGAR IMPORTS DOWN IN LATEST WEEK - USDA

Sugar imports subject to the U.S. sugar import quota during the week ended March 6 totaled 25,192 short tons versus 29,043 tons the previous week, the Agriculture Department said. Cumulative imports now total 130,804 tons, it said. The sugar import quota for the 1987 quota year (January-December) has been set at 1,001,430 short tons compared with 1,850,000 tons in the 1986 quota year, which was extended three months to December 31. The department said the Customs Service reported that weekly and cumulative imports are reported on an actual weight basis and when final polarizations are received, cumulative import data are adjusted accordingly. Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON MARCH 27

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on March 27 to 2.424 billion dlrs from 2.508 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 9.706 billion dlrs from 10.786 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 12.131 billion dlrs on March 27 compared with 13.283 billion dlrs on March 26. Reuter 
U.S. GROUP ASKS SPECIAL ROYAL DUTCH<RD> MEETING

A group of U.S. investors opposed to Royal Dutch Shell Petroleum Co's South African policies plans to seek a special shareholders meeting to discuss their complaints. Representatives of the American Baptist Churches and the New York City Teachers Retirement System said the company has refused to include their proposals in proxy material prepared for the annual meeting in May. The group said its proposals call for an end to sales by Royal Dutch to the South African police and military and withdrawal from South Africa. Reuter 
LITTLE RISK SEEN FOR TEXAS COTTON FROM COLD

Texas' cotton crop stands little chance of damage from frigid temperatures expected tonight in that state, as very little cotton has been planted, according to Texas agricultural sources and cotton market analysts. "It's still pretty early for cotton planting. Only six pct of the crop was planted as of last week," said Doug Stillmann, a statistician at the Texas Agricultural Statistic Service in Austin, a division of the U.S. Agriculture Department. Stillmann and other cotton market sources said planting had begun in the Rio Grande Valley and South Texas areas only, with planting in the crucial high and low plains areas not slated to begin until next month. The high and low plains accounted for 60 pct of the 2.5 mln bales produced in Texas last year, Stillmann said. Temperatures tonight in most of Texas are expected to drop to freezing to the low 20s, although the lower Rio Grande Valley may see more moderate readings in the middle 30s, according to meteorologists at Accu-Weather Inc. The price of new-crop cotton on the New York cotton futures market rallied today on weather-related fears. Reuter 
REPORT ON EXPORT MARKETS FOR U.S. GRAIN DELAYED

The U.S. Agriculture Department's report on Export Markets for U.S. Grain, scheudled for release today, has been delayed until Wednesday, April 1, a department spokeswoman said. No reason was given for the delay in releasing the monthly report. Reuter 
ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT RAISES HEAVY FUEL PRICES

Scallop Petroleum Corp, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell group, said today it raised contract prices for heavy fuel 25 cts to 1.75 dlrs a barrel, effective today. The increase brings the price for 0.3 pct sulphur to 22.50 dlrs, up 1.75, 0.5 pct sulphur to 21.50 dlrs, up 1.50, 0.7 pct sulphur to 20.25 dlrs, up 75 cts, one pct sulphur to 19.50 dlrs, up 25 cts, two pct sulphur to 18.75 dlrs, up 75 cts, 2.2 pct sulphur to 18.50 dlrs, up 75 cts, 2.8 pct sulphur to 18.00 dlrs, up 75 cts. Reuter 
FLORIDA WEEKLY CROP REPORT

Florida's citrus groves continue in very good condition, acccording to the latest report by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Florida Agricultural Statistics Service. Late-week rains and thunderstorms came at an opportune time. Warm daytime temperatures and good soil moisture have produced an abundance of new growth and bloom. Most trees are in some stage of bloom development with petal drop already taking place in many south Florida groves. Harvest of late-type valencia oranges is increasing rapidly with the near completion of the early and midseason varieties. Rain during the week caused some delay in picking. For the week ended March 29, there were an estimated 77,000 boxes of early and midseason and 945,000 boxes of late season oranges harvested, the USDA said. Reuter 
FED'S POLICY EASE MAY END WITH 2ND QTR RATE CUT

The Federal Reserve's move to easier monetary policy, begun with four quick half-point discount rate cuts in 1986, will likely end with a final rate drop in the second quarter, analysts said. A poll of 10 economists shows most expect interest rates to edge lower, with the Fed likely to drop its basic lending rate from 5-1/2 pct late next quarter to help the economy. "The Fed is not likely to ease policy much further without a full-blown recession," said Raymond Stone, chief financial economist at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Stone said economic data available by late June may be just weak enough to prompt one more discount rate cut. But he said it may only be a quarter-point drop instead of the usual half point, to avoid hurting the dollar further. All of the economists agreed that the Federal Open Market Committee tomorrow will leave Fed policy unchanged. The average forecast of those surveyed projects roughly quarter-point drops by the end of June in both the Treasury bond yield, to 7-1/2 pct, and the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one another, to 5-7/8 pct. Most expect the prime lending rate at major banks to remain at 7-1/2 pct. Other broad predictions of the survey, relating mainly to the April-June quarter, follow: - The dollar is likely to decline five to 10 pct further against other major currencies because of a large U.S. budget deficit and a wide, but narrowing, trade gap. Contacted after the dollar's steep drop in the last two business days, the economists reaffirmed this view but stressed the risk is that the dollar will fall more, rather than less, than they expect. - Oil prices in the second quarter are likely to continue trading roughly between 16 and 19 dlrs a barrel and could well test the lower end of that range. - Stocks will continue to outperform bonds next quarter and probably for all of 1987. Stocks should gain on strong foreign demand and a modest second-half economic rise. The outlook for bonds also is less favorable later in the year since both inflation and interest rates may be edging up. - Inflation as measured by the GNP implicit price deflator will rise to around 3.3 pct this year from 2.7 pct in 1986. The sharp fall in the dollar to date will add to inflation, as will a mild economic pickup in the second half of this year. - U.S. real gross national product, which grew at a two pct annual rate in the 1986 second half, should expand at respective rates of about 2.3 pct and 2.5 pct in the 1987 first and second halves. First-quarter growth is put at a 2.4 pct annual rate, slowing to 2.1 pct next quarter. Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International sees both the strongest economy and the highest interest rates among those surveyed. He expects real GNP, which grew at a 1.1 pct rate in fourth-quarter 1986, to expand at a 3.3 pct rate this quarter and 3.5 pct next quarter. "The economy will bounce back more strongly than many expect," Brusca said. He said an involuntary buildup in inventories, largely in autos, will add to first-quarter economic growth, with consumer spending helping later. "We're running out of special factors to keep the economy afloat," said Philip Braverman of Irving Securities Corp. His interest rate and economic forecasts were among the lowest. Braverman said tax law changes and inventory accumulation helped lift fourth and first quarter GNP growth, respectively. He expects 2.5 pct first quarter growth but said that second quarter growth could be zero or negative. Braverman said economic activity next quarter will suffer from a paring of inventories, lower capital investment, slow government spending and less construction. Only a marginally narrower trade deficit will add to growth. He sees a 7.10 pct end-of-June yield on Treasury bonds, with Federal funds and prime rates at 5.50 and seven pct, respectively. Nikko's Brusca projects rates of 8.25 pct for bonds, 6.15 pct for funds and 7.75 pct for the prime rate. Two of the 10 economists revised rate forecasts up mildly after the dollar's fall to 40-year lows versus the yen in past days and news of pending U.S. trade sanctions against Japan. David Resler of Nomura Securities Co International Inc raised his end-June bond yield forecast to 7.50 pct from 7.20 pct and a Fed funds rate estimate to six pct from 5.80 pct. Raul Nicho, president of Money Market Services Inc, lifted his forecast of bond and Fed funds rates an eighth of a point to eight pct for bonds and 6-1/4 pct for funds. Both Nicho and Resler left their end-June prime rate forecast at 7-1/2 pct. The higher rate forecasts reflected a belief that Japanese investors will be less eager to buy U.S. bonds because of fear about further dollar erosion and perhaps in response to U.S. trade sanctions. Yields may have to rise to lure other buyers. ......END-JUNE U.S. INTEREST RATE FORECASTS.... ....................T-bonds..Fed funds..Prime.. Nikko Securities.....8.25......6.15......7.75.. Money Mkt Services...8.00......6.25......7.50.. Discount Corp........7.75......6.25......7.50.. Merrill Lynch........7.30......5.75......7.50.. Bankers Trust........7.25......5.50......7.50.. Wells Fargo Bank.....7.30......5.60......7.00.. Irving Securities....7.10......5.50......7.00.. Dean Witter..........7.00......5.50......7.00.. .FORECAST AVERAGE....7.50......5.875.....7.50.. .CURRENT LEVELS......7.80......6.125.....7.50.. Reuter 
LOUISIANA WEEKLY CROP REPORT

The Louisiana weekly USDA state crop report said there were 2.4 days suitable for fieldwork. Soil moisture supplies rated 41 pct adequate and 59 pct surplus. Winter Wheat - fair to good condition. eight pct headed vs 27 pct a year ago and 17 pct average. Corn - eight pct planted vs 64 pct a year ago and 51 pct average. two pct emerged vs 45 y/a and 23 avg. Spring Plowing - seventeen pct completed vs 66 pct a year ago and 48 pct avg. Reuter 
TEXAS WEEKLY CROP REPORT

The Texas weekly USDA state crop report said stormy winter weather limited fieldwork before conditions improved later in the week. A snowstorm caused some cattle deaths in the Panhandle, and cold, wet weather covered many areas. Windy weather followed to dry fields and limit planting delays. Small grains made good progress despite cool temperatures which slowed growth. Additional moisture was needed in some areas. Many fields were booting and some were beginning to head. Wheat was rated 16 pct fair, 56 pct good and 28 pct excellent. Corn and sorghum planting progressed, and land preparation was ahead of schedule in the Plains despite snowy weather. Cotton planting progressed in the Lower Valley. Reuter 
ARKLA <ALG> PROPOSAL TO SETTLE DISPUTE

Arkla Inc said it and International Paper Co <IP> filed a proposal with the Arkansas Public Service Commission designed to resolve the dispute between the two over IP's plan to build natural gas pipelines for its paper mill facilities at Pine Bluff and Camden. Arkla's pipeline division, Arkla Energy Resources, currently delivers all of the natural gas consumed at the two mills. Under the proposal, Arkla will support IP's plan to build the alternate pipelines, while IP will allow Arkla's pipeline division to deliver an equal quantity of competitively priced supplies to other IP facilities. Reuter 
U.S. CREDIT MARKETS END UNDER EXTREME PRESSURE

The U.S. credit market ended under extreme pressure as the dollar's continued slide on the currency markets triggered an avalanche of U.S. securities sales, pushing prices to 1987 lows, dealers and analysts said. "This was a bloodbath," said one money market economist. "We've been trading in a state of total panic at times today," said another. Mirroring the dollar's fall to a 40-year low against the yen, the key 7-1/2 pct 30-year Treasury bond price fell nearly two points to close at 96-7/32, compared with 98-5/32 on Friday. The corresponding yield jumped to 7.83 pct from 7.66. Reuter 
STEEL TECHNOLOGIES <STTX>, MITSUI SET VENTURE

Steel Technologies Inc said it agreed to form a 50-50 joint venture with <Mitsui and Co Ltd> to make steel products. The venture, called Mi-Tech Steel Inc, will be set up to serve Japanese and domestic automobile and appliance parts makers in the U.S. A plant will be located near Murfreesboro, Tenn., and production is expected to begin in the fall 1987, the company said. Reuter 
STEEL TECHNOLOGIES <STTX> IN JOINT VENTURE

Steel Technologies Inc said it signed an agreement with Mitsui and Co Ltd <MITSY> and its subsidiaries to establish a joint venture corporation to be called Mi-Tech Steel Inc. Mitsui, through its subsidiaries, Mitsui and Co USA Inc and Mitsui Steel Development Co Inc, and Steel Technologies each will own 50 pct of the new company, the company said. Mi-tech Steel will construct, own and operate steel service centers. The facilities will be established to serve Japanese and domestic automobile and appliance parts manufactures in the U.S., the company said. The initial processing center will be located near Murfreesboro, Tenn., and is expected to begin operations in the fall of 1987, Steel Technologies said. Daryl Elser, president of Steel Technologies, will be president of the new company, it said. Reuter 
MIDAM EXCHANGE MOVES TO CBT FLOOR, EXPANDS HOURS

The MidAmerica Commodity Exchange (MIDAM) moved from the former Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor to a room off the main trading floors of the Chicago Board of Trade (CBT) today and expanded trading hours for Treasury-bond futures to 0720 to 1515 CST. CBT bond futures continue to trade from 0800 to 1400 CST. The MIDAM was founded last century as the Chicago Open Board of Trade as a grain exchange and has since expanded to include smaller contracts of livestock, currencies, metals and financial futures. MIDAM traders said the new CBT facilities worked well today, offering more inter-market spread opportunities in two trading pits than on the old floor which they believed was too large for the volume of trade. Reuter 
EXXON (XON) SEES SYNFUELS ROLE BY YEAR 2000

Development of costly shale oil, liquified coal and other kinds of synthetic fuels, halted in recent years because of cheap and abundant petroleum supplies, will become economic again when world oil prices top 30 dlrs a barrel, an Exxon Co USA executive said. Joe McMillan, a senior vice president, told Reuters after addressing a Houston meeting of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, "By early in the next century, synthetics should play a significant role in this country's energy supply." McMillan also told reporters at a news conference that he believed synthetic fuels would become economic to develop when world oil prices reached a 30 to 40 dlr a barrel price range. "You're talking about a 50 pct increase in crude oil prices, but I think that time is coming and we've got to be prepared," McMillan said. He predicted U.S. oil demand would rise by about one pct annually in the next few years while the nation fails to replace its oil reserves through exploration. By the turn of the century, world oil prices will be significantly higher because of declining supplies, McMillan said. Ashland Oil, Inc. chairman John Hall, who also spoke at the meeting, advocated some form of federal tax incentives to help spur development of synthetic fuels. The United States, Hall said, has nearly 500 billion tons of demonstrated coal reserves, an amount more than triple that of all the world's known oil reserves. "We must encourage research now in order to make synfuels competitive later," Hall said. The average lead time for development of a shale oil or liquified coal project is between five and ten years. Until last year, the federal government had subsidized synfuels development through the U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp., a research program created during the Carter Administration with the goal of developing replacements for up to two mln barrels of oil. The corporation was shut down last April when Congress refused to continue funding its eight billion dlr budget because of uneconomic projects based on forecasts of 50 dlrs a barrel oil and 10 dlr per mcf natural gas during this decade. Reuter 
OKLAHOMA WEEKLY CROP REPORT

The Oklahoma weekly USDA crop report said cold weather slowed crop development and caused some cattle deaths. Wheat growth was halted by cold weather, and rain early in the week prevented fertilizer application and weed spraying. Fields in the west were short of nitrogen, and moderate insect activity was noted in the southwest region. Wheat condition was rated 15 pct fair, 84 pct good and one pct excellent. Row crop activity was very slow amid wet conditions. Topsoil moisture was rated 30 pct adequate and 70 pct surplus, and subsoil moisture was rated 100 pct adequate. Only two days were suitable for fieldwork. Reuter 
USX <X> UNIT RAISES SOME STEEL PRICES

USX Corp said its USS steelmaking division increased prices on plate and H-pile products. Effective with May three shipments, it said the price base on carbon and high-strength low-alloy, or HSLA, H-piles will increase by 1-1/2 cts per pound. Effective with shipments beginning June 28, the price on carbon, HSLA, and alloy plates will increase by 1-1/4 cts per pound. Strip mill plate prices will rise by 3/4 cts per pound. It said the price increases on plate and H-pile products will apply to all shipments from USS plants. Reuter 
PHILIPPINES TO REPAY SOME PRINCIPAL IN 1987-89

The Philippine government has quietly agreed to make token payments of principal in each of the next three years as part of its 10.3 billion dlr commercial bank debt rescheduling package finalized last Friday, bankers said. Manila will pay foreign banks 37 mln dlrs a year in 1987, 1988 and 1989, representing four pct of a 925 mln dlr loan signed in 1985. Amortizations on the loan were not due to begin until 1990, but the Philippines agreed to make the extra 111 mln dlr prepayment in order to win a relatively low interest margin of 7/8 pct over Eurodollar rates, bankers said. Bankers said they insisted on the principal repayments so that they could justify a margin of 7/8 pct by drawing a direct parallel between the Philippines and Venezuela, which won a 7/8 pct spread on a 21 billion dlr debt rescheduling package last month. After the Venezuelan deal was clinched, leading New York bankers hurried to argue that 7/8 pct was the new benchmark spread for a debtor nation that was current on interest, was not seeking new money and was amortizing loan principal. Previously, the 13/16 pct margin granted to Mexico was seen by debtors as the margin to strive for. The Philippines, which met the first two Venezuelan criteria but not the third, was adamant that it could not accept a spread higher than 7/8 pct. Bankers could not back down either because they would have had to sacrifice millions of dollars in profits and may have thrown the door open to other debtors, notably Argentina and Brazil, to claim even finer spreads than Mexico's. In the end, the compromise saved face for the banks. "The banks were agonizing how to reconcile this package with Venezuela's. This allowed them to walk out and say, We've kept faith with the Venezuelan precedent," one source said. The prepayments, although modest, were not apparently something that the Philippine negotiators wanted to dwell upon as they sought to portray their 17-year rescheduling agreement as better than Mexico's. Finance minister Jaime Ongpin did not refer to the prepayments at a news conference he held in New York on Friday to announce the rescheduling agreement. And an accompanying press release referred only obliquely to the fact that the 7/8 pct margin will increase to one pct "as long as the Philippines pays amortizations as agreed with the banks." The threat of a higher margin gives the Philippines every incentive to make the extra payments, and the government has indicated that it will in fact do so, bankers said. Furthermore, by paying back ahead of schedule some of the last loan it raised, the Philippines will be hoping to make a good impression on the international banking community. Ongpin said the country should not have a financing gap before the end of next year at the earliest, depending on the success of the Philippine Investment Note issues which are planned, but some bankers say they are already braced for new loan requests for 1988 and 1989. Reuter 
U.S. SHOULD REASSESS MIDEAST POLICY - ANALYST

The U.S. should reassess its Mideast policy in light of its rising dependence on imported oil, according to Charles Ebinger of the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "The prospect of rising dependence on oil imports from the Gulf, and the recent revelations of the Tower Commission report, mandate more than ever before the need for a fundamental reassessment of U.S. interests in the Middle East," Ebinger said. He remarks were made in an address to the National Petroleum Refiners Association meeting. "Although in the short run it is difficult to see a direct link between Arab anger and threats to oil supplies, in the current environment it will be increasingly difficult for moderate Arab leaders to be seen as friendly to U.S. interests," Ebinger said. Oil traders said threats to oil supplies has kept crude oil prices strong recently although some believe prices will be weaker if demand falls in the spring. But William Randol, analyst at First Boston Corp, said crude oil prices will hold near current levels this spring. There will be no spring downturn, said Randol, speaking at the annual refiner meeting. He said there is a 40 pct chance that crude oil prices could move higher in the second half of the year, following an OPEC meeting scheduled for late June. He said he expects OPEC will extend its current agreement to restrict production. OPEC will renew its production pricing agreement in June because the value of the oil exports of the OPEC producers has declined along with the U.S. dollar, Randol said. OPEC oil exports are priced in U.S. dollars, and the dollar has fallen about 30 pct in the last 18 months. Randol said U.S. crude oil imports will increase 3.5 to four mln barrels per day by 1990 as consumption rises 1.5 to two mln bpd, and supplies decline two mln bpd. Reuter 
CRIBB NAMED REAGAN'S DOMESTIC AFFAIRS ADVISER

President Reagan, moving to add a prominent conservative to his top White House management team, named Kenneth Cribb to be his domestic affairs adviser. Cribb, a former counselor to Attorney General Edwin Meese, has served on the transition team assembled by new White House chief of staff Howard Baker since early March. Baker, who replaced Donald Regan as the president's top aide, is considered a moderate Republican as is his deputy, Kenneth Duberstein. Reagan also announced that Edwin Feulner, another leading conservative activist, would serve as a consultant to the White House. However, Feulner will remain president of the Heritage Foundation, a conservative Washington think tank. REUTER 
ARGENTINE DEBT TALKS FINELY POISED, BANKERS SAY

Financing talks here between the Argentine government and its bank advisory committee are finely poised, with the two sides still separated on the critical question of interest-rate spreads, bankers said. Argentina is pressing for a margin of 13/16 pct over the London Interbank Offered Rate, the same rate as on Mexico's recent new-loan and rescheduling package, but the banks are refusing, they said. Negotiations continued in New York today, even though Finance Secretary Mario Brodersohn has returned to Argentina to consult president Raul Alfonsin on the proposed terms. After the difficulty of syndicating Mexico's 7.7 billion dlr loan, bankers feel that they could not sell a package for Argentina with a margin of 13/16 pct. They are holding out for a spread close to one pct, with 7/8 pct - the rate won by Venezuela and the Philippines - as their rock-bottom offer. "What they're looking at and what we've got on the table are not that far apart," one banker said. Bankers said that Argentina is seeking to stretch out principal repayments on upcoming public-sector debt maturities for 19 years and is looking for a 13-year loan from the banks to cover the bulk of its 2.15 billion dlr new-money need. Reuter 
S. KOREA MINISTER TO VISIT U.S. FOR CURRENCY TALKS

South Korea's Finance Minister Chung In-yong will visit U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker next week to discuss U.S. Requests for an appreciation of South Korea's won against the dollar, finance ministry officials said. They said Chung would leave for Washington on Monday to attend the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) Interim Committee meeting and for talks with U.S. Officials on ways of reducing Seoul's trade surplus with Washington. The dates for the Baker-Chung meeting have yet to be set. The IMF committee meeting, scheduled for April 9, is expected to review the resolution reached by the six top industrialised nations in Paris last month calling for newly industrialised countries, such as South Korea and Taiwan, to allow their currencies to rise. The official said Chung is expected to outline Seoul's efforts to increase imports of U.S. Goods and to stress the need for South Korea to maintain a trade surplus in the next few years in order to cut foreign debts totalling some 44.5 billion dlrs. South Korea has ruled out a major revaluation of the won, but is allowing its currency to appreciate slowly. Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae told the U.S. Chamber of Commerce earlier this month a sudden won revaluation could result in South Korea running a large trade deficit and being forced to renege on its international debt repayments. The Bank of Korea, the central bank, today fixed the won at a two-year high of 846.90. The won has gained 5.1 pct since the beginning of 1986. South Korea's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 7.1 billion dlrs last year from 4.3 billion in 1985. REUTER 
U.S. LEADING INDICATORS ROSE 0.7 PCT IN FEB AFTER REVISED 0.5 PCT JAN FALL



U.S. LEADING INDEX ROSE 0.7 PCT IN FEBRUARY

The U.S. index of leading indicators rose a seasonally adjusted 0.7 pct in February after a revised 0.5 pct January fall, the Commerce Department said. The department previously said the index fell 1.0 pct in January. The February increase left the index at 187.1 over its 1967 base of 100, and was led by a rise in stock prices. A total of four of nine indicators available for February contributed to the increase in the index. Besides stock prices, they were manufacturers' new orders for consumer goods and materials, average work week and building permits. Five of nine indicators were negative. They were change in sensitive materials prices, money supply, vendor performance, average weekly initial claims for state unemployment insurance, and contracts and orders for plant and equipment. The main factor in the January revision was contracts and orders for plant and equipment, the department said. December also was revised to a 2.4 pct rise from an earlier 2.3 pct rise due to a change in outstanding credit. The index of coincident indicators, which measures the current economy, rose 0.9 pct in February after a decline of 1.3 pct in January and a rise of 0.9 pct in December. The index of lagging indicators, which measures past economic activity, decreased 0.3 pct in February after increasing 1.7 pct in January and falling by 0.5 pct in December. The department said it has suspended net business formation from the leading indicators index because it has deteriorated as a measure of change in the business population. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SEES RATE STABILITY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the agreement among the industrial countries reached in Paris last month should foster stability of exchange rates at around current levels. In testimony before the House Appropriations Committee, Baker outlined many of the measures taken designed to achieve more balanced growth and a reduction of trade imbalances during the Paris meeting. "These measures should also foster greater stability of exchange rates around current levels," he said. Baker reiterated that the ministers at the Paris meeting agreed that their currencies were within ranges "broadly consistent with underlying economic fundamentals and that further substantial exchange rate shifts could damage growth and adjustment prospects." He added: "In these circumstances, we agreed to cooperate closely to foster stability of exchange rates around current levels." Reuter 
HOME GROUP <HME> STARTS TRADING ON NYSE

Home Group Inc said its common stock starts trading today on the <New York Stock Exchange>. The stock had been traded on the <American Stock Exchange>. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SEES EXPANSION CONTINUING

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that the current expansion, which he noted was in its fifth year, will continue in the period ahead. He told the House Appropriations Committee that "there is every prospect that the current expansion will continue unabated through 1987 and the years beyond." Baker said interest rates over the period have continued to decline and that "policies of the Federal Reserve assure that ample credit was available. He said that the administration's longer term forecast envisioned that "we will maintain and improve upon our progress in bringing down the rate of inflation." Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS COOPERATION WORKING

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that the agreement in Paris to cooperate in exchange rate changes showed that the process of coordination agreed to at the Tokyo summit was working. He told the House Appropriations Committee the meeting "demonstrated that the process is working." He noted that the industrial surplus countries committed themselves to strengthen their growth prospects while the deficit countries agreed to reduce their domestic imbalances. Baker said that for its part, Japan announced a cut in its discount rate to 2.5 pct and committed itself to prepare a comprehensive economic program to stimulate domestic demand after the Diet completes action on the current budget. He said the United States must also do its share pressing for reductions in the federal budget deficit through spending cuts. "And we must continue to oppose protectionist pressures," he added. Reuter 
U.S. SUGARBEET PLANTINGS SEEN RISING IN 1987

Representatives of U.S. sugar grower organizations said they expect some increase the area planted to sugarbeets this year and said the prospects for the 1987 cane sugar crop also are good. Dave Carter, president of the U.S. beet sugar association, said plantings may be up in two major beet growing states, California and Michigan, while sowings could be down slightly in the largest producing state of Minnesota. Overall, Carter predicted beet plantings would rise in the midwest, and this coupled with increases in California would increase U.S. sugarbeet plantings slightly from the 1.232 mln acres sown last year. USDA later today releases its first estimate of 1987 U.S. sugarbeet plantings in the prospective plantings report. The main reason for the expected increase in beet sowings is that returns from competing crops such as soybeans and grains are "just awful," said Carter. In the midwest, bankers are strongly encouraging farmers to plant sugarbeets because the U.S. sugar program offers a loan rate of 18 cents per pound and because payments to farmers from beet processors are spread evenly over the growing season, said Luther Markwart, executive vice president of the American sugarbeet growers association. "The banks are putting a lot of pressure on these guys," Markwart said. In some areas there are waiting lists of farmers seeking a contract with processors to plant beets, Markwart said. USDA's report today will not include any harvested area estimates for sugarcane, but representatives of Florida, Hawaii and Louisiana growers said crop prospects are good. Horis Godfrey, a consultant representing Florida and Texas cane growers, said Florida cane is off to a good start because for the first time in several years there was no winter freeze. Although area to be harvesteed is about the same as last year, cane production may be up in Florida this year, he said. In Hawaii, area harvested may decline slightly this year, but likely will be offset again in 1987 by increased yields, said Eiler Ravnholt, vice president of the Hawaiian Sugar Planters Association. The acreage planted to sugarbeets will receive more than the usual amount of attention this year because of mounting concern that continued increases in domestic sugar production threaten the U.S. sugar program, industry sources said. The increases in beet plantings have especially caused concern among cane growers who have not expanded plantings, particularly in Hawaii, industry officials said. "We haven't had a good weather year throughout the beet and cane areas in more than five years," said Godfrey, adding that the U.S. may be due for a good weather year. Rep. Jerry Huckaby, D-La., chairman of the House agriculture subcommittee responsible for the sugar program, has threatened to offer legislation next year to curb domestic sweetener output if growers fail to restrain output in 1987. Reuter 
CSCE RESTRUCTURES COFFEE FUTURES DAILY LIMITS

The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange has expanded the normal daily trading limit in Coffee "C" contracts to 6.0 cents a lb, from the previous 4.0 cents, effective today, the CSCE said. The new daily limits apply to all but the two nearby positions, currently May and July, which trade without limits. In addition, the 6.0 cent limit can be increased to 9.0 cents a lb if the first two limited months both make limit moves in the same direction for two consecutive sessions, according to the CSCE announcement. Before the rule change today, the CSCE required two days of limit moves in the first three restricted contracts before expanding the daily trading limit. Under new guidelines, if the first two restricted deliveries move the 6.0 cent limit for two days the Exchange will expand the limit. The expanded 9.0 cent limit will remain in effect until the settling prices on both of the first two limited months has not moved by more than the normal 6.0 cent limit for other contracts in two successive trading sessions, the CSCE said. Reuter 
KANSAS EXCHANGE HITS CFTC POSITION LIMIT PLAN

The Kansas City Board of Trade, KCBT, has asked federal futures regulators to modify a proposal to raise the Chicago Board of Trade's, CBT, speculative position limits on wheat futures contracts, saying the plan would put the the Kansas exchange "at a serious competitive disadvantage." The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, last month proposed raising CBT wheat speculative limits to 1,200 contracts all months net from 600 contracts, and to 900 contracts for any single month from 600 contracts. At the same time, CFTC proposed leaving KCBT's wheat speculative position limits unchanged. "Higher limits for CBT wheat than for KCBT wheat would significantly impair the KCBT's ability to compete with the CBT for speculative interest," Michael Braude, president of the Kansas exchange, said in a letter to CFTC. A CFTC spokesman said the commission took into account open interest affected by existing speculative limits in proposing to raise CBT's limits. KCBT said the CFTC proposal would reduce hedging efficiency, constrain growth of intermarket spreading and of the exchange's wheat options contract and impair its ability to attract large speculators. The Kansas City exchange asked the commission to amend its proposal to change the limits for KCBT wheat to the exact same bushel amount as specified for CBT wheat. CFTC will consider public comments on the proposal until June 3. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION ROSE IN 1986

Exxon Corp said in its annual report that it raised production in 1986 although it did not replace all oil and gas produced. The company said that it added about four pct to production bringing it to 1.8 mln bpd, the highest level since 1979, based largely on increased production of oil overseas but additions to its reserves from new discoveries and reserve acquisitions did not replace all of the oil and gas produced. The company said that the average price for oil and gas declined 41 pct in 1986 from the previous year sparking a 38 pct decline in its earnings from exploration and production. Exxon's earnings from exploration and production in 1986 fell to 3.1 billion dlrs from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985. Exxon said that its principal gains in production came from the Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, the North Sea, Malaysia and from oil sands in Canada. Exxon also said that it acquired 11.2 mln acres for expoloration spread over 10 countries including the U.S, Europe and the Far East. But capital expenditures for exploration and production were cut to 4.6 billion dlrs from 7.6 billion the previous year and further reductions were expected in 1987. Exxon said that its net share of crude oil and natural gas liquids produced from offshore fields in the North Sea reached a new high of 422,000 bpd. The light, sweet crudes produced from these North Sea fields also gave the company trading gains as Exxon was able to sell much of this crude and replace it with cheaper, lower quality crude oil for its refineries which have been upgraded over the past several years. The trading gains and lower acquisition costs gave Exxon more of a spread in its refinery operations and added to earnings gains from refining and marketing. Exxon said earnings from refining and marketing operations rose to nearly two billion dlrs in 1986, up from 872 mln dlrs in 1985. The company said petroleum sales slipped slightly to 4.043 mln barrels per day from 4.082 mln bpd in 1985 while crude runs rose to 3.0 mln bpd from 2.9 mln bpd the previous year. Exxon's refinery operations benefited from a three year 500 mln dlr upgrading program to its Baytown, Texas refinery completed last October and an 850 mln dlr upgrading project in Rotterdam both of which emphasize utilizing lower grade crudes to extract higher proportions of light products. Reuter 
U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY SEES HIGHER GNP GROWTH

Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said a 0.7 pct rise in February's index of leading indicators pointed to stronger economic growth in the first half of 1987. In a statement commenting on the rise last month after a 0.5 pct January decline, Baldrige noted the leading index was rising at an 8.0 pct annual rate in the six months to the end of February. "Based on past relationships, that gain is consistent with stepped up growth in real GNP during the first half of 1987," Baldrige said. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE LEADERS SEE NO TRADE WAR BREWING

The Senate's Democratic and Republican leaders praised President Reagan for retaliating against Japan for violating a semiconducter accord but dashed cold water on ideas it was the first shot in a trade war. Senate Democratic Leader Robert Byrd and Republican leader Bob Dole both told the Senate Reagan's decision was long overdue and urged Japan to open its markets to U.S. goods and stop dumping on world markets. Each noted in separate speeches that they saw no trade war over the issue, despite concerns in financial markets. "That fear has no basis in fact," Byrd said. Reuter 
KANSAS LEGISLATOR PREDICTS EEP WHEAT TO SOVIETS

Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., predicted the Reagan administration within the next ten days to two weeks will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP. Roberts made the comment at a press conference held by Republican members of the House Agriculture Committee. He did not say on what he based the comment, but an aide said Roberts had been in touch with top Republican officials recently. The possibility of an expansion of EEP to include wheat to Moscow has been rumored for some time, and some industry sources believe a decision on the issue will be made by the Reagan administration before Secretary of State George Shultz goes to Moscow in April. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE LEADER BLASTS REAGAN LEADERSHIP

Senate majority leader Robert Byrd said President Reagan's veto of an 88 billion dlr highway construction bill does not show leadership. "Government by veto is not leadership," the West Virginia Democrat told reporters. "It's confrontation." He said Reagan "is attempting to show he's back and rehabilitated by vetoing a very important bill." The House is expected to override the veto today, but the outcome is uncertain in the Senate. Byrd said he is not sure when the bill would go before the Senate if the House overrides, but anticipated action this week. Reuter 
U.S. ADVISER SAID DEAD IN SALVADOR RAID

At least 40 soldiers and guerrillas including a U.S. military adviser died today in a major battle in northern El Salvador, military sources said. The sources said 30 guerrillas and 12 government soldiers were killed when up to 800 leftwing guerrillas attacked the El Paraiso base of the Fourth Infantry Brigade in the province of Chalatenango, about 35 miles north of San Salvador. A U.S. embassy spokesman confirmed that a U.S. adviser was among the dead. The one-hour battle involved some of the heaviest fighting for several years, the sources said. Reuter 
WEATHER HURTING YUGOSLAV WHEAT - USDA REPORT

Unfavorable late winter weather conditions in the main wheat growing areas of Yugoslavia indicate dimmed prospects for the emerging winter wheat crop, the U.S. embassy's agricultural officer in Belgrade said. The officer, who travelled through an area from Belgrade to Subotica, said in a field report dated March 27 the wheat crop had been set back at least three weeks because of a cold spell that followed a period of warm weather. He said unseasonably warm weather in late February that brought the wheat crop out of winter dormancy early was followed by three weeks of unusually cold weather. Damaging effects were seen in the fields, most of which show stands with a yellow-brown cast indicating extensive leaf and possible root damage from repeated freezings, he said. The report said that since much of the early growth in February was from late seeding rather than from normal development, his view was that the damage may be more extensive than some local observers say. The most seriously affected fields were late-seeded fields on normal maize soils. Stands in these fields were thin and chances of recovery appeared less favorable, he said. However, he said soil moisture conditions were favorable and many of the fields had already been top-dressed, which would aid recovery. Reuter 
LYNG HAS NO COMMENT ON WHEAT SUBSIDY TO SOVIETS

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng declined to confirm statements made today by a farm state congressman that the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union within the next 10 days to two weeks. When asked to clarify comments by Rep. Pat Roberts of Kansas that the administration would soon offer Export Enhancement wheat to the Soviet Union Lyng said, "well it won't be today," and then added, "we have no official comment one way or the other." Lyng would not comment on whether a wheat subsidy offer to the USSR is under more active consideration at the USDA, saying that any remarks by him would be tantamount to an official announcement and could be construed inappropriately. Reuter 
NEW GASOLINE GRADE TO RAISE U.S. REFINING COSTS

A new grade of unleaded gasoline now being test marketed will increase refining costs when refiners can least afford it, according to officials attending the National Petroleum Refiners Association conference here. The new grade of unleaded gasoline has an octane level of 89 compared with over 90 for super unleaded and 87 for regular unleaded gasoline. Amoco Corp <AN> has test-marketed the new mid-grade gasoline and hopes to sell it on a regular basis in the South, East and Midwest by the beginning of June, according to Paul Collier, executive vice president of marketing. Phillips Petroleum <P> expects to begin marketing the new 89 octane unleaded gasoline in May, sources said. Converting current refinery operations to produce the 89 octane unleaded gsoline could cost hundreds of millions of dollars per refinery but that depends on the present capacity and intensity of the refinery, said Amoco's Collier. But not all oil company's welcome the introduction of another grade of unleaded gasoline. "Three grades are not warranted," said Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum <CNP>. "Refiners will have to upgrade again," he added. "An investment will have to be made," said Archie Dunham, executive vice president of petroleum products at Conoco, an operating subsidiary of DuPont Corp <DD> in order to upgrade refinery operations. Reuter 
CIRCLE FINE ART TO BEGIN TRADING ON NASDAQ

Circle Fine Art Corp said its common stock will be included in the next expansion of the NASDAQ National Market System to take place April 7. Circle Fine Art said its quotation symbol will be <CFNE>. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
WINTER WEATHER HURTS EAST GERMAN GRAIN - USDA

Shifts from mild to very cold weather in East Germany damaged winter barley and late sown winter wheat in central regions and barley north of Berlin, the U.S. agricultural officer in East Berlin said. In a field report, the officer said indications were that winter kill might well be more than 100,000 hectares compared with 38,000 last year. He said the damage was probably more limited in southern and central regions and most widespread in the north. Damage was most severe on plants above the ground where little or no snow cover was present, he added. The officer said heavy frosts at night followed by sunshine during the day led to some heaving, particularly for well developed plants and for winter barley. Furthermore, as the ground surface thawed, some standing water occurred in the fields. The officer said repairing damage will probably call for special measures this spring in fields with damaged plants and where stands are thin. Harrowing, as well as well-timed applications of nitrogen, will be necessary, he added. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS U.S. BACKS STABILITY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the United States and the five other industrialized nations signing the recent Paris Accord remain committed to fostering the exchange rate at around current levels. But he declined to comment on what he believed to be an appropriate level of the dollar in world markets. "I'm not going to comment on that because invariably the exchange markets read either more or less into my remarks than I might intend," he said in response to a question from the House Appropriations Committee. Baker said the six nations participating in the Paris meeting in February had "acknowledged that the currencies are within ranges that are broadly consistent with the economic fundamentals and we and the others as well remain prepared to cooperate closely to foster stability in exchange rates around those levels." Reuter 
TRADERS EXPECT SHARP DROP IN U.S. CORN ACREAGE

Grain trade analysts expect a sharp drop in corn acreage, with most expecting a more modest decline in soybeans, in the U.S. Agriculture Department, USDA, plantings intentions report due out at 1500 est (2100 gmt). The average trade guess for 1987 planted corn acreage was 66.06 mln acres, ranging from 60.7 to 69.0 mln, all well below the 76.67 mln planted last year due to improved incentives by the USDA for farmers to retire acres. Corn acres totalled only 60.22 mln in 1983, when the PIK program was introduced. The average soybean planted acreage quesstimate was 59.49 mln, ranging from 58.0 to 63.0 mln and compared with the 61.48 mln planted in 1986 With substantial grain stocks, less interest was expressed among analysts in the USDA stocks report also scheduled today. Reuter 
USDA'S AMSTUTZ CONFIDENT OF EC OILS TAX DEFEAT

U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said he was confident that a European Community, EC, proposal to tax vegetable and marine oils and fats would not be approved by the Community. Asked by Reuters if he was confident the plan eventually would be defeated, Amstutz said, "Yes, I am, but I also know that things like this take constant vigilance." The USDA official said the EC Council of Ministers held an ad hoc meeting yesterday. Commenting on that meeting, he said, "So far, so good." Yesterday British Farm Minister Michael Jopling said enough EC states appeared to be opposed to the proposals by the commission for a 330 European Currency Unit a tonne tax on vegetable oils, fats and marine oils for the moves to be defeated. Reuter 
OXFORD ENERGY <OEN> STARTS TRADING ON AMEX

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has started trading the common stock of Oxford Energy Co, which had traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES REAGAN OPPOSING OIL TAX

Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee that he believes the president remains opposed to an oil import fee. He said Reagan last year rejected the idea and he added: "In my personal view he is not likely to change his thinking on that." He said Reagan last year opposed the idea because the energy industry was divided on the issue, a tax would require a new bureacracy to administer and the resulting higher energy prices would harm U.S. competitiveness. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES SMALLER TRADE DEFICIT

Treasury secretary James Baker predicted the U.S. trade deficit would decline 15-20 billion dlrs this year. However, he acknowledged signs were still lacking on such a decline. "We think we are beginning to see changes," he told the House Appropriations Committee. "It has begun to level off (but) we don't see it beginning to go down yet," he told the panel. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS

Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee the United States is still pressing newly industrialized south Asian nations that have tied their currencies to the dollar to let those currencies strengthen against the dollar. "We have seen some strengthening of those currencies (but) not as much as we would like," he said. "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far, but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter 
U.S. OFFICIALS DEFEND OIL RESERVE SALE PLAN

Treasury Secretary James Baker and Office of Management and Budget chief James Miller defended an administration plan to sell the U.S. Naval Petroleum Reserves. In response to hostile questioning from a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the officials said the plan was justified to help bring the fiscal 1988 budget deficit and to get the government out of the oil business. Miller acknowleged the estimated sale proceeds at 3.3 billion dlrs would actually bring down the deficit by about 2.2 billion dlrs because of the loss of revenues from the sale of oil from the reserves. Miller said the sale price may end up higher. "We'd sell it to the highest bidder," Miller said. "If we can get more we'll take it." Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAID HE IS NOT CONCERNED ABOUT DECLINE IN BOND MARKET



TREASURY'S BAKER NOT CONCERNED BY BOND DECLINES

Treasury Secretary James Baker, asked whether he was concerned about yesterdays precipitous decline in bond prices, said he was not. Questioned by reporters as he left a House committee hearing, Baker said "no," when asked about the bond decline, adding that it was a reflection of concern about the possibility of a trade war. "It is what the markets think would be the adverse consequences of a trade war." He said the administration was concerned that protectionism would lead to international trade problems adding that he thought the action against the Japanese was still consistent with this policy. Reuter 
CSCE ALTERS RULES ON TRADING LIMITS

The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange amended regulations governing expanded trading limits on coffee, cocoa and sugar contracts to provide uniformity. Effective today, the exchange will permit normal daily price limits in those commodities to expand whenever the first two limited contract months move the limit in the same direction for two consecutive sessions. The normal daily limits will be reinstated once the first two limited deliveries close by less than the normal limit for two successive trading days. Previously exchange rules required the first three limited months to move the limit in coffee and cocoa. It had required the first two limited sugar deliveries to make such moves for three consecutive sessions. reuter 
SOUTHWESTERN ENERGY <SWN>, ARKLA <ALG> SET PACT

Southwestern Energy Co said it reached an agreement with Arkla Energy Resources for Arkla to carry gas owned by Southwestern subsidiaries. Under the agreement, the interstate pipeline division of Arkla Inc will carry up to 25 mln cubic feet of gas a day until Dec 31, 1987, and, subject to capacity, up to 50 mln cubic feet a day in 1988 and 75 mln feet a day for the rest of the pact. Payment terms vary depending on the type of service provided, a Southwestern spokesman said. The deal is effective March one, 1987, expires July one, 1997, and is renewable yearly thereafter, he said. The pact calls for transmission of gas owned by Arkansas Western Gas Co, Seeco Inc, Arkansas Gas Gathering Co and Southwestern Energy Production Co, Southwestern Energy said. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE BUDGET CHIEF ATTACKS SPENDING BILL

White House budget chief James Miller told the House Appropriations Committee the Reagan administration has "serious objections" to a supplemental spending bill for the current fiscal year that is about to come to a House vote. Miller said the bill, which as written by the Appropriations Committee, would approve 2.7 billion dlrs in additional 1987 spending, cut defense too harshly and gave too much to domestic programs. The administration had only asked for an additional 1.1 billion dlrs in 1987 spending. Reuter 
CHIRAC, REAGAN DISCUSS ARMS CONTROL, TRADE

French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac opened talks with President Ronald Reagan expected to focus on superpower arms control moves and trade issues. French officials said a major aim of Chirac's visit was to present France's concern that the United States might ignore European security interests in any accord with Moscow on removing medium-range nuclear missiles from the continent. But Reagan was expected to assure Chirac that he will not agree to a deal at the Geneva superpower talks that would give the Russians superiority in shorter-range systems, diplomats said. France has expressed doubts about removing U.S. missiles from Europe so long as the Soviet Union maintains an edge in other weaponry, particularly shorter-range rockets, conventional forces and chemical weapons. Speaking last night, Chirac set out the French position saying: "Any agreement on intermediate nuclear forces should mention how equality can be achieved in short-range missiles." Reagan and Chirac meanwhile signed an agreement ending a dispute between two leading research institutes over patent rights to a blood screening test for the deadly disease AIDS. In a joint statement, Chirac and Reagan said the Pasteur Institute in Paris and the National Cancer Institute, of Bethesda, Maryland, agreed to give part of the royalties from the test to a new foundation dedicated to the wordwide fight against AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). "This agreement opens a new era in Franco-American cooperation, allowing France and the United States to join their efforts to control this terrible disease in the hopes of speeding the development of an AIDS vaccine and cure," Reagan said at the signing ceremony. He said the two parties would share the patent and give 80 per cent of the royalties received to the new foundation. The foundation would also raise private funds and would donate 25 per cent of its money to combat AIDS in less developed countries. Both leaders stressed the long ties between France and the United States during a welcoming ceremony in the White House East Room, with Reagan describing France as "America's oldest ally in war and peace." "I have come to tell you that we are remain motivated by the same ideals of freedom, by the same will to face the dangers which we both confront -- terrorism, war, hunger, poverty, new diseases and drugs," Chirac replied. But the two countries are likely to have less to agree on over the issue of trade, where Chirac is worried about a rise in protectionism in the U.S. Congress. A senior U.S. official yesterday dismissed a French idea to sell cut-price grain to poor countries in Africa as a way of lessening surplus stocks. Chirac is expected to canvass support for the idea, first proposed by French Agriculture Minister Francois Guillaume, during his two-day visit to Washington. The U.S. official described the idea as a "grain producers' OPEC" -- a reference to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries -- and said it went against the Reagan administration's desire to lessen government intervention in trade. Reuter 
U.S. DISTILLATE, GASOLINE INVENTORIES SEEN LOWER

Tonight's American Petroleum Institute weekly inventory report is expected to show moderate drawdowns in distillates and gasoline stocks for the week ended March 27, analysts and traders said. They said they expect gasoline stocks to fall three mln barrels or less and heating oil inventories to drop between 1.3 and four mln barrels. Some analysts see crude stocks falling by as much as six mln barrels, while others think they could go up as much as 3.5 mln barrels. Crude oil runs are expected to be unchanged from the previous week or slightly higher or lower. For the week ended March 20, the API said gasoline stocks fell 2.7 mln barrels. Mosts analysts expect a modest draw for the week ended March 27. They said stocks could fall between 700,000 and three mln barrels. Some said there is also a chance gasoline stocks will be unchanged. API said distillate stocks dropped four mln barrels for the week ended March 20. Analysts and traders generally predict a similar or smaller depletion for last week. They said stock levels could drop 1.3 to four mln barrels. The analysts attribute product stockdraws to seasonal factors but they said crude direction is harder to call. Crude inventories rose 8.5 mln barrels in the week ended March 20, API said. Analysts are looking for build of between 3.5 mln barrels to a six mln barrel draw for the week ended March 27. API reported the amount of refinery capacity utilized up three pct for the week ended March 20. Analysts said utilization could have remained unchanged, or rose or fell by less than one pct for the week ended March 27. Moderate product stockdraws would strengthen the market slightly, analysts said. But bullish expectations are already partially reflected in today's gains, they added. Reuter 
U.S. WEATHER/COTTON SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Cotton planting began in California and was expected to proceed rapidly in the week ended March 28, the Joint Agriculture Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In a summary of its Weather and Crops Bulletin, the agency said winds and low soil temperature retarded growth and hampered seeding in Arizona. Planting moved into Mohave and Pinal Counties. Cotton planting progressed well in the Lower Valley, Coastal Bend and along the Upper Coast of Texas. However, bad weather continued hampering cotton seedbed preparations in Oklahoma. Reuter 
USDA'S AMSTUTZ "SYMPATHETIC" TO WOOD CREDITS

U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said he was "totally sympathetic" with U.S. wood producers' desire to have their exports eligible for government credit guarantees. But he told the Senate Appropriations Agriculture subcommittee that including wood products in the department's short- or intermediate-term export guarantee programs would conflict with U.S. multilateral trade obligations. Currently, U.S. wood products are not eligible for government export credit guarantee because they are considered "manufactured products," Amstutz said. He said USDA had devoted an "enormous amount" of time to considering making wood products eligible for the guarantees and that Congress was considering a measure to do so. Reuter 
BRAZIL CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Widespread rain interfered with summer crop harvesting in Brazil's Rio Grande do Sul and southern Mato Grosso do Sul in the week ended March 28, the Joint Agricultural weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said some rain fell in Parana, providing beneficial moisture to immature soybeans and corn following a long hot, dry spell. Mostly dry weather prevailed in western Sao Paulo, southwestern Minas Gerais, southern Goias and extreme eastern Mato Grosso do Sul, it said. The agency said weekly temperatures again averaged near to slightly above normal. In general, harvest progress likely was slowed by wet field conditions over much of the region, it said. Reuter 
CHINA CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Moderate to heavy rain continued over early double-crop rice areas in eastern Guangxi, Guanghdong, eastern Hunan, Jiangxi, Fujian, and Zhejiang in the week ended March 28, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International Weather and Crop summary, the agency said The moisture lessened the need for irrigation. Moisture for early rice planting is adequate to abundant in most areas, and inundative rain in Guangdong and southern Jiangxi may have washed out some rice fields requiring replanting. Light showers in southern Sichuan increased topsoil moisture for corn planting, which likely is off to a slow start due to earlier dryness, it said. In the North China Plain, dry weather covered winter wheat in the vegetative stage, and rain is needed to meet increasing crop moisture requirements, it said. Weekly temperatures in the North China Plain were near normal, the agency noted. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE WELCOMES RISE IN INDICATORS

The White House welcomed last month's 0.7 pct increase in the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, the government's key barometer of future economic growth. The increase reversed a decline in January of 0.5 pct. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the new figures signalling more economic growth in coming months showed that the index was "back on track" after its downturn at the first of the year. REUTER 
TREASURY'S BAKER PURSUING S. ASIAN REVALUATIONS

Treasury Secretary James Baker told the House Appropriations Committee the United States is still pressing newly industrialized south Asian nations that have tied their currencies to the dollar to let those currencies strengthen against the U.S. currency. "We have seen some strengthening of those currencies (but) not as much as we would like," he said. "We have been somewhat disappointed in the results so far, but we intend to continue these discussions," he said. Reuter 
UNION PACIFIC <UNP>CLOSES VENEZUELAN PARTNERSHIP

Union Pacific Corp said it has closed the previously announced 50-50 partnership with Petroleos de Venezuela SA, Venezuela's national oil company, to own a 160,000 barrel per day refinery in Corpus Christi, Texas. Union Pacific said the partnership, called Champlin Refining Co, will acquire the refining and distribution system owned and operated by Union Pacific's Champlin Petroleum Co subsidiary. The Venezuelan company also signed a 25-year feedstock agreement with the partnership to supply at least 140,000 barrels a day of Venezuelan crude oil and naphtha at market related prices. Reuter 
BROADER U.S. EEP SOUGHT BY REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS

Republican members of the House Agriculture Committee said they will propose amendments tomorrow to a pending trade bill increasing funding for the export enhancement program, EEP, and significantly expanding the scope of the program. At a press conference, Republican lawmakers said they would propose expanding EEP to include all countries "willing to purchase additional commodities at reasonable prices." In addition, the Congressmen said they would propose extending the life of EEP to five years from the current three years and increasing the EEP funding ceiling to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion at present. The Agriculture committee tomorrow will begin drafting amendments to an omnibus trade bill now before the House. Responding to the Republican plan, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng and Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said they favor a flexible, targeted use of EEP instead of an across-the-board program which they termed too costly. The Republican Congressmen also said they will offer an amendment to the trade bill instructing the U.S. Agriculture Department to value the bonus commodities used for EEP at the market value, rather than the cost of acquisition. But Lyng said USDA already plans to change to market value accounting rather than acquisition value, in order to avoid hitting a funding ceiling for eep of 1.5 billion dlrs. Lyng said under market value accounting only about 700 mln dlrs of EEP commodities have been used to date. Using acquisition value, USDA officials said the value is higher. Reuter 
U.S. CARGO PREFERENCE SQUABBLE CONTINUES

The U.S. Agriculture Department said it will begin charging interest tomorrow on the over 12 mln dlrs the Department of Transportation, DOT, owes USDA to pay for its share of the cost of shipping food aid on U.S. vessels. USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims told the Senate Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee his department had billed DOT 12 mln dlrs, and that interest on that amount and an additional charge would begin accruing April 1. USDA's Foreign Agricultural Service Administrator Thomas Kay told Reuters DOT could owe USDA as much as 20 mln dlrs. The two departments are trying to hammer out an accord on how to fund the increasing share of food aid required to be shipped on U.S. flag vessels under a 1985 farm bill provision on cargo preference. Sims said the agencies were near to reaching a memorandum of understanding governing how DOT would pay for its share of the cargo preference costs. Under the 1985 bill, the percentage of food aid shipments carried on U.S. vessels was to increase gradually over three years to 75 pct in 1988 from 50 pct. Although the increased cost was to be funded by DOT, Sims said that department to date has contributed no money. Reuter 
ROYAL DUTCH <RD> OBJECT OF SHAREHOLDER CAMPAIGN

Sponsors of a campaign to pressure Royal Dutch Petroleum Co to suspend operations in South Africa claimed the backing of church groups and other institutions who collectively own 4.8 mln of the the company's approximately 268.0 mln shares. "We're seeking to have the company disinvest in South Africa - that means get out," Harrison Goldin, comptroller of New York City told a news conference. The immediate goal of the campaign is to enlist the support of owners of 27 mln shares to force an unprecedented special meeting of shareholders, Goldin said. Goldin appeared at the news conference with Gordon Smith, treasurer of the ministers and missionaries benefit board of the American Baptist Churches. The 4.8 mln shares represented by the group includes four retirement funds covering various groups of New York City workers, the California State Teachers Retirement System and seven church-related groups. Goldin said the ultimate aim of the group is to "tighten the noose of economic pressure on South Africa" until the government changes its apartheid policies. A reprsentative of Shell Oil Co, the U.S. arm of Royal Dutch, distributed a statement after the news conference explaining that the company supports a program of power sharing by all South Africans. The statement said senior officials of the company have stated publicly that they regard apartheid as "a system wholly at variance with the principles on which our group of companies has operated all over the world for many years." Goldin said the group seeks a special meeting because the company has rejected efforts to have South African issues placed on a ballot for the annual meeting in May. Goldin said the shareholders have no particular timetable for the special meeting. "We are dealing with an effort to arouse public opinion," he said, asserting that it is not necessary to have a majority of the votes. "Large companies respond when they see which way the wind is blowing." An immediate goal is to get Shell to stop selling fuel to South Afria's military and police, he said. Smith said the campaign against Shell breaks new ground in the cooperation of institutional investors on social issues. An official of the United Mine Workers outlined a previously announced boycott of Royal Dutch/Shell products. Reuter 
DOW <DOW> AMENDS RESINS PRICE INCREASE

Dow Chemical Co's Thermoplastic Resin Department said it is amending a recent price increase for Magnum ABS (A) resins announced March 3 for an effective date of April 1. Dow said that effective April 15 the selling prices for most grades of Magnum ABS resins for the injection molding, custom sheet and automotive markets will rise six cts a pound, instead of the three cts a pound announced previously. Dow also said that the selling prices for performance grades of the resins to the same markets will increase eight cts a pound, rather than five cts as announced before. The company said that Magnum ABS resins for pipe extension will increase three cts a pound, effective April 9, as previously reported. Dow said it altered the increase to reflect changes in the industry over the past month. Reuter 
ECHO BAY HAS NEVADA GOLD DISCOVERY

Echo Bay Mines Ltd said it discovered a gold deposit in the Cove area near its McCoy gold mine in Nevada. Echo Bay said it encountered gold in 39 of 42 drill holes at Cove. It said seven holes averaged 0.185 ounce gold a short ton and 1.8 ounces of silver, with the seven intersections averaging 118 feet in thickness beneath 25 feet of overburden. The discovery is on the McCoy property, one mile northeast of the McCoy open pit, heap leach gold mine, which is expected to produce about 85,000 ounces of gold this year, Echo Bay said. Reuter 
DEVON <DIN> REPORTS INCREASE IN RESERVES

Devon Resource Investors said as of January one, its estimated proven reserves increased by 443,000 net equivalent barrels to 32.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas and 660,000 barrels of oil, compared with 29.5 bcf of gas and 700,500 barrels of oil as of Jan one, 1986. Devon said that its estimated future net revenues attributable to reserves is about 58 mln dlrs with a present value, discounted at 10 pct, of 38 mln dlrs. It also said that it expects to have sufficient cash flow to cover its annual payout of 60 ct per unit and expand its drilling budget in 1987. Reuter 
USDA AGAIN EXTENDS FARM OPERATING PLAN DEADLINE

The U.S. Agriculture Department said it has extended until April 17 the date by which Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation county offices must determine eligibility of individuals or other entities for payments under 1987 farm programs. Jerome Sitter, director of ASCS's Cotton, Grain and Rice Price Support Division, said the decision meant farmers have until April 17 to file a farm operating plan indicating how many persons would be involved in their farming operations. Earlier this year USDA extended the deadline to April 1 from March 1, Sitter said. ASCA Administrator Milton Hertz said in a statement that the extension was necessary because of heavy workloads at county ASCS offices. Hertz said ASCS county officials "have had to make a large number of eligibility determinations for individuals and other entities, such as corporations and partnerships, in preparation for imposing the 50,000-dlr-per-entity cap." "These offices already had a very heavy workload due to the large number of applications for both the 1987 farm programs and the Conservation Reserve Program," Hertz said. Reuter 
USDA ACCEPTS BID FOR BONUS WHEAT TO ALGERIA

The U.S. Agriculture Department said it had accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of durum wheat to Algeria. USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims said the Commodity Credit Corp accepted one bid from Cam USA Inc on a sale of 18,000 tonnes of durum wheat. Sims said the bonus was 42.44 dlrs per tonne and shipment was scheduled for June 20-30, 1987. An additional 246,000 tonnes of durum wheat are still available to Algeria under the export enhancement program. Reuter 
CCC CREDITS FOR MEXICO SWITCHED TO WHEAT--USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has switched 10 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Mexico to cover purchases of U.S. wheat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales of U.S. dry edible beans and rice, it said. The action reduces the guarantee lines previously authorized of dry edible beans to by five mln dlrs to 45 mln dlrs and for rice from five mln to zero and increases coverage for wheat sales from five mln to 15 mln dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. OFFICIAL SEES EVIDENCE OF EXPORT GROWTH

Beryl Sprinkel, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said he sees "growing but incomplete evidence that (U.S.) export volumes are finally strengthening." In remarks prepared for a speech today in Los Angeles, Sprinkel said the decline in the dollar's value since 1985 had "largely" restored U.S. cost competitiveness in world markets and appeared to signal an end to U.S. trade imbalances. "I am confident that further improvements in our trade performance will contribute significantly to U.S. growth in 1987," he said. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE PASSES HOUSING BILL

The Senate passed a two year extension of federal housing programs, including 15 billion dlrs for lower income housing assistance over two years. The vote was 71 to 27. Total value of the bill was estimated at 31 billion dlrs. The bill permanently extended the authorization for Federal Housing Authority mortgage insurnce. The bill also extended the urban development grant program, the national flood insurance act, the rural housing program as well as several other housing programs. The bill now goes to the House. Reuter 
U.S. CREDITS FOR ECUADOR SWITCHED TO VEG OIL

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) switched five mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Ecuador to provide for more sales of U.S. vegetable oil, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales of U.S. cotton, feedgrains and wheat. The action reduces the guarantee lines previously authorized for sales of cotton from 1.5 mln dlrs to 500,000 dlrs, for feedgrains from four mln to two mln and for wheat from 45 mln dlrs to 43 mln dlrs and increases coverage for vegetable oil sales from two mln to seven mln dlrs, the department said. Reuter 
U.S. EXTENDS HIDE EXPORT PERIOD FOR YUGOSLAVIA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has extended the export period for Yugoslavia to ship U.S. hides and skins under a line of credit from the Export Credit Guarantee Program, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The shipping period has been extended from September 30, 1987 to December 31, 1987, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. Reuter 
HONDURAS SEEKING VESSELS FOR BULK WHEAT SHIPMENT

Honduras will tender April 2 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 19,369 tonnes of wheat in bulk, an agent for the country said. The agent said Honduras is seeking vessels to deliver 7,369 tonnes during a period that includes laydays of April 15-30, and 12,000 tonnes with laydays of May 15-30. Offers are due no later than 1200 hrs EST, April 2, and will remain valid through the close of business the following day, the agent said. Reuter 
U.S. STEELMAKERS, UNION SEEK RENEWED IMPORT CURB

The U.S. specialty steel industry and its union said they will seek a three-year extension of President Reagan's import restraint program to give the industry more time to restore competitiveness. They said they will tell the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) Thursday that "termination will have disastrous consequences for American companies and workers." The current four-year voluntary program reached with foreign exporters ends this summer and the ITC must advise President Reagan on the economic effect of its termination. The Specialty Steel Industry of the United States and the United Steelworkers Union said in statement that imported steel was still flooding the domestic market and continued curbs were needed to restore the industry's health. Reagan is to decide by July 19 whether to renew the restraint program. Reuter 
OIL PRICES SAID NOW BASED ON FUTURES PRICE

Energy futures now set the standard for oil pricing, said Arnold Safer, president of The Energy Futures Group Inc, a consulting firm. "Petroleum futures trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange literally set spot market prices in the U.S.," he said, adding that some oil products sellers now offer contracts based on a daily average of NYMEX prices. He also said that petroleum futures are a major market for oil companies as well as for commodity traders. His remarks were made at the National Petroleum Refiners Association. Reuter 
EGYPT TENDERS THURSDAY FOR OPTIONAL ORIGIN CORN

Egypt will tender Thursday for 200,000 tonnes of optional origin corn, U.S. number two or equivalent, 14.5 pct moisture, for late April shipment, private export sources said. Shipment will be from the Gulf or Great Lakes if U.S. origin, they said. Reuter 
CURRENCY FUTURES CLIMB LIKELY TO BE CHECKED

The surge in currency futures since Friday on the heels of the Reagan administration's proposed tariffs on Japanese imports is likely to be curtailed in the coming week, financial analysts said. "The market is taking a breather now, and I would expect it to last a little longer," said Craig Sloane, a currency analyst with Smith Barney, Harris, Upham and Co. Profit-taking, which robbed the currency futures of some momentum today, is likely to continue, he said. Central banks are likely to play a role in halting the advance in currencies through intervention, the analysts said, even though the dollar fell to a 40-year low against the Japanese yen on Monday despite Bank of Japan intervention. Treasury Secretary James Baker's comments that the G-6 nations remain committed to the Paris accord, coupled with his refusal to give any targets for exchange rates, provided a note of stability to the market Tuesday, the analysts said. Furthermore, Merrill Lynch Economics analyst David Horner said G-6 central banks haven't yet shown the full force of their commitment to the Paris accord. "I'm among those who believe the G-6 have a plan behind the scenes," Horner said. Horner said more forceful central bank intervention will firm the dollar and cap the rise in currency futures. "Coordinated, punishing intervention" by the central banks -- in contrast to the recent rolling intervention which has only smoothed out the market -- is in the offing, according to Horner. "I think we're near the top of the range in the Europeans (currencies)," he said. On the other hand, the upside target for the yen, which set a new contract high today at 0.006916 in the June contract, is at 0.007050, Horner said. Still, other analysts believe currency futures have yet to peak. "The basic trend in the currencies is higher," said Anne Parker Mills, currency analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. "The market wants to take the dollar lower." Uncertainty over central bank action and nervousness over a G-5 meeting next week in advance of a meeting of the International Monetary Fund could make for choppy price activity the remainder of the week, Mills said. In addition, although the market shrugged off relatively healthy gains in February U.S. leading economic indicators and factory orders Tuesday, economic data could play a larger role in coming sessions, the analysts said. Friday's employment statistics in particular will be closely watched, Sloane said, adding that a forecast rise of 250,000 in non-farm payroll jobs should underpin the dollar. Reuter 
GRAIN REPORTS IMPROVE U.S. FARM OUTLOOK-ANALYSTS

The U.S. grain planting intentions and stocks reports bear optimistic news for U.S agriculture, a grain analyst on a Chicago Board of Trade panel said. The decline in intended soybean acreage and lower stocks are "the first report we've had for a long time that shows any optimism for anybody," said John "Bud" Frazier, grain analyst and executive vice president for Balfour MacLaine, Inc. "I'm really excited about it," Frazier said. The U.S. Department of Agriculture said farmers intend to plant 67.6 mln acres of corn, down from 76.7 mln planted last year, and 56.8 mln acres of soybeans, down from 61.5 mln. The report showed March 1 stocks of 1.4 billion bushels of soybeans, 8.3 billion bushels of corn, and 2.3 billion bushels of wheat, all below trade guesses. Frazier was joined by Susan Hackmann, senior grain analyst with AgriAnalysis, and Mark Meyer, a grain analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., on a Chicago Board of Trade panel to discuss the reports. Frazier said the stocks reports in particular were friendly for the market, and soybean prices would jump three to five cents a bushel "if the bell rang right now." "We're getting our disappearance up. We have less (corn and soybeans) than we thought we had," he said, noting that hog and poultry production is up. "We're seeing low prices generate some interest in demand," said Meyer, adding that feed use was up 13 pct last quarter and 15 pct in the preceding quarter. However, Hackmann said production could continue to exceed consumption. She noted that most of the reductions in soybean acres came in southeastern states, where yields are usually low. "We have the potential for record breaking soybean yields this year, (which) will temper the enthusiasm on tomorrow's opening," she said. Hackmann said record corn yields also are possible, and the crop could reach 7.1 billion bushels, which would be down from last year's 8.25 billion bushels. "We'll need very good disappearance next year to reduce stocks," she said. The USDA estimated disappearance last year at 6.7 billion bushels. Hackmann said the stocks report was positive for the long term, "But we still have a long way to go to bring stocks down to where we could start rebuilding prices." Frazier also cautioned that the soybean acreage report could prompt farmers to change their plans and plant more soybeans. The panelists agreed that the reports should discourage talk of revising the 1985 farm bill. "There seems to be no desire ... to change the farm law we're working under today, and this report should reinforce that," Frazier said. "We are seeing the program beginning to work," said Meyer. Reuter 
ANALYSTS SEE SLOW MOVE TO HIGHER U.S. PRIME RATE

Quarter-point prime rate increases to 7-3/4 pct by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank today will be followed by other banks only after they see clearer signs of the Federal Reserve's policy intentions, economists said. "Based on the spread between banks' cost of funds and the prime rate, it probably makes sense for others to follow, but no rush is likely," said Paul McCulley of E.F. Hutton and Co. Citibank's surprise base rate increase, quickly followed by Chase, sent U.S. bond prices lower and the dollar higher. McCulley said that once the spread between three-month certificates of deposit and the prime rate narrows to less than 1-1/2 percentage points, there is a strong chance of a prime rate increase. It has been under 1-1/4 points recently. However, banks are likely to hold rate increases until they see what the Fed intends to do about interest rates in the near term, analysts said. They noted that banks historically like to follow Fed rate movements, rather than lead them. For example, the last prime rate increase occurred in June 1984 when banks lifted the rate to 13 pct from 12-1/2 pct after a Fed discount rate increase in April of that year. Major banks had been posting a 7-1/2 pct prime rate since last August 26/27, when they lowered the rate from eight pct shortly after the Fed's half-point discount rate cut to the current 5-1/2 pct level on August 20. "The banks will not rush to raise their prime rates. There should be a split prime for a while with some posting a 7-1/2 pct rate and others 7-3/4 pct," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co. Jones said the Federal Open Market Committee at today's meeting voted no change in Fed policy. But he said the Fed may well foster higher interest rates soon. Jones said that, while the FOMC probably voted no policy change today, it may have decided to apply slight upward rate pressure later if the dollar weakens, inflation pressures heat up or the economy shows sign of strong recovery. "The Fed clearly indicated that they did not intend to tighten policy when they did today's coupon pass," said Joseph Liro of S.G. Warburg and Co. In a move that came a day earlier than most expected, the Fed today supplied permanent reserves to the banking system by offering to buy all maturities of Treasury notes and bonds for its own account. This seasonal reserve add is called a "pass." "The Fed demonstrated that there has been no policy change," said Elizabeth Reiners, economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. She said the spread between banks' cost of funds and the prime rate is now around 137 basis points compared with a 153 basis point average in 1986. Reiners said the spread is not really narrow enough to present a clear need for a prime rate increase. The Dean Witter economist said that today's prime rate rise "may have been less a response to interest rates than an attempt to enhance the (balance sheet) bottom line." Reiners said that, given recent problems with loans to developing countries, large money center banks with heavy exposures might be the first to match the higher prime rate in an effort to get more profitable spreads on other loans. The Federal funds rate at which banks lend overnight money to one another could help determine how many banks match the higher prime rate and also how quickly they move. In raising their prime rates, banks cited a higher cost of funds. In the three business days through Monday, the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one another averaged nearly 6-1/4 pct. But quarter end pressures helped push up funds. The Fed funds rate was extremely volatile today, reflecting demand pressure associated with the end of the quarter and the close of the Japanese fiscal year. Funds traded between five and 6-3/4 pct. Once the special distortions end, analysts said the funds rate probably will return to its recent trading level in the 6-1/8 pct area. They said that, if it stabilizes near there, banks may not quickly boost their prime rates. But a consistently higher funds rates would suggest to many that the Fed was fostering somewhat higher interest rates to help the dollar. Then banks would lift prime rates quickly. Reuter 
U.S. FED EXPLORES COMMODITY BASKET INDEX

The complex task of wielding control over monetary policy in an increasingly fast-moving global economy could be aided by tying policy to commodity prices, the newest member of the Federal Reserve Board says. Commodity prices are already considered by the Fed in the making of monetary policy. But they would be given a much greater role under an idea being floated by Governor Robert Heller, who joined the board last August. He conceeds that much more study of the idea is needed, but argues that such an arrangement, particularly if it were adopted by other major industrial countries, could reduce the volatility of exchange rates. Moreover, it could help stabilize of the prices of commodities themselves, slowing changes in inflation. His idea, which many conservative economists find appealing, has some backing among board members appointed in recent years by President Reagan. It would complement the present system of opening or closing the monetary screws based on the pattern of inflation, key indicators such as unemployment, and the rise or fall of the money supply. Changes in the money supply can lead to changes in interest rates and affect economic activity directly. Discussed on and off for a long time, the commodity concept is part of a growing search for a system that anchors monetary policy and widely-fluxtuating currency prices to a more solid base. "What is needed is an anchor or reference point that can serve as a guide for both domestic and international monetary purposes," says Heller. In the past, this anchor was gold but the United States went off the gold standard because the global economy had vastly outstripped gold supplies. A return to the gold standard is generally dismissed out of hand by most policymakers on the grounds that the largest producers of gold are the Soviet Union and South Africa. The so-called fixed rate system, scuttled in the early 1970s, is still considered unworkable in the present world. But the current system of floating currencies in which currencies can fluxtuate widely, adding vast pressures to the monetary system, is also being widely questioned. Some have suggested that the system might benefit from a formal approach that mandates intervention by countries when currencies wander above or below agreed to levels but there are major problems with this also. For one thing, there is justifiable concern that countries might be relunctant to intervene if they felt it might be detrimental to their own domestic economy. Moreover, some question whether concerted intervention can make much of an inpact if the overall market does not agree with the fundamental judgement. The poorest countries have called for a monetary conference to work out a new system that, not surprisingly, helps them cope with their overpowering debt problems. Treasury Secretary James Baker, the Reagan administration's chief economic architect, has preferred to use the so-called Group of Five industrial countries or sometimes, Seven, as a forum to work out cooperative agreements on currency and other economic matters. He appears convinced that officials from West Germany, France, Britain, Japan, Italy and Canada talking quietly behind closed doors can reached reasoned decisions away from public posturing. The Heller approach, while extremely complex, could have a profound impact on the system, ideally stabalizing prices and international exchange rates. As envisioned by Heller, a basket of say, 30 major commodities ranging from wheat to oil, would be put together and prices would be measured on a regular basis. "In times of rising commodity prices, monetary policy might be tightened and in times of falling commodity prices, montary policy might be eased," he says. He notes that commodity prices are traded daily in auction markets, and a commodity price index can be calculated on a virtually continuous basis. Moreover, most commodity prices are produced, consumed and traded on a world-wide basis, so "that an index has a relevance for the entire world," he says. In addition, commodity prices are at the beginning of the production chain and serve as an imput into virtually all production processes. "Focusing on commodity prices as an early and sensitive indicator of current and perhaps also future prices pressures, the monetary authorities may take such an index into account in making their monetary policy decisions," he says. However, he says that any major change in a basic commodity such as occurred in oil during the 1970s because of action by the OPEC cartel, would have to be discounted in such a system. He says the worst thing that could happen is to allow monetary policy to spread a freakish increase in one commodity to the rest of the system and to other commodities. Reuter 
BRAZIL TO MEET BANK CREDITORS ON APRIL 10

A Brazilian delegation, led by central bank president Francisco Gros, will meet Brazil's bank advisory committee here on April 10, said Citibank's William Rhodes as Chairman of the 14-bank committee. Rhodes said in a statement that the parties are expected to discuss Brazil's economic plans and "interim arrangements." He did not elaborate further. This meeting will be the first here since Brazil's unilateral suspension of interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt on February 20. The two sides held inconclusive talks in Miami on March 22, bankers said. Reuter 
REAGAN SETS FIRM RULES FOR NATIONAL SECURITY STAFF

President Reagan made public a detailed set of orders to his national security staff designed to prevent scandals similar to the Iran arms affair. In a message to Congress accompanying National Security Decision Directive (NSDD) 266, Reagan said: "(The reforms) are evidence of my determination to return to proper procedures, including consultation with the Congress." NSDDs are normally classified. Officials said this was the first time the duties of the national security staff had been spelled out in such a document since the National Security Council (NSC) was set up by Congress 40 years ago. The orders implement the recommendations of the Tower Commission, named by the president to investigate the secret U.S. Arms sales to Iran and led by former Senator John Tower. In a scathing report on February 26, the panel blasted the conduct of the NSC staff and criticised the president for being unaware of many of the activities of his subordinates. Reagan accepted the report's conclusions in a speech on March 4 and said he had barred NSC staff from conducting covert operations. The prohibition is laid out in NSDD 266 which calls for a "small, highly competent (NSC staff) broadly experienced in the making of national security policy." NSDD 266 said the organization should impose "clear vertical lines of control and accountability." The eight page document said the NSC's use of private individuals and organisations as intermediaries to conduct covert activities would be "appropriately limited and subject to close observation." It said the NSC staff should include a legal adviser who would have access to all information. The national security adviser should initiate periodic reassessments of policies and operations and ensure that consultations and presidential decisions are adequately recorded, it said. REUTER 
MALAYSIAN MINERS SAY U.S. SELLING TOO MUCH TIN

Malaysian miners criticised the U.S. For violating an agreement with Southeast Asian producers by selling more stockpiled tin in 1986 than agreed. The U.S. General Services Administration sold 5,490 tonnes of tin in 1986, well above an agreed upon annual limit of 3,000 tonnes, the States of Malaya Chamber of Mines said. In its latest annual report, it said the U.S. Had promised to limit sales of tin in a memorandum of understanding signed with the six-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in December 1983. "The U.S. Appears to have lost sight of the U.S./ASEAN Memorandum of Understanding," the Chamber said. The Chamber estimated the U.S. Strategic stockpile held 180,444 tonnes of tin in December 1986, 137,744 tonnes in excess of of its original stockpile goal of 42,700. The main ASEAN tin producers are Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand, which produce the bulk of the world's tin. REUTER 
BUEHRMANN-TETTERODE PLANS FURTHER EXPANSION

Dutch paper, packaging and graphical equipment group Buehrmann-Tetterode NV <BVTN.AS> said its policy in this and coming years will be aimed at further expansion by autonomous growth and takeovers at home and abroad. In the statement on its official results for 1986 it also confirmed provisional results given on March 2, stating a 1986 net profit of 93.2 mln guilders against 57.3 mln in 1985. Turnover rose by 4.4 pct to 3.25 billon guilders. Net profit per share, corrected for a share issue and stock split, was 3.92 guilders in 1986 against 3.28, and dividend 1.55 guilders per nominal five guilder share against 1.30 guilders. Buehrmann-Tetterode said its international expansion will be aimed at the United States in particular, adding that the company was pursuing wider geographical spread of assets and profits. Joint-ventures might in some cases be preferable to starting new activities on their own, the statement said. The firm said its financial position enables it to achieve its goals and it has confidence for 1987. Buehrmann's board chairman, Adriaan Overwater, told reporters he expected 1987 turnover to grow more rapidly than in 1986 when net sales posted only a 4.4 pct rise to 3.4 billion guilders while profits were up 63 pct to 93.2 mln. He said 1986 profits surged mainly after acquisitions and reorganisations aimed at reducing costs and solving operational problems, such as unsatisfactory management in the firm's stationary, office equipment and leisure articles division. Overwater said he was optimistic about 1987 prospects but said he would await first quarter results before quantifying growth expectations. REUTER 
LUFTHANSA LAUNCHES FLIGHTS TO WASHINGTON, RIYADH

Deutsche Lufthansa AG <LHAG.F> said it launched today regular scheduled services from Frankfurt to Washington D.C. And Riyadh. The four weekly flights to Washington will be increased to five at the end of the month, a statement said. The twice weekly flights to the Saudi capital will fill a hole in its Middle East network, it said. Lufthansa said it carried 1.3 mln passengers on North Atlantic routes in 1986, a rise of 14 pct over 1985. Freight transported westward over the Atlantic rose seven pct to 94,300 tonnes while eastbound volume rose 31 pct to 74,600 tonnes. REUTER 
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - PRIME RATE

The prospect that other banks will follow industry leaders Citibank and Chase Manhattan in raising their prime rate is likely to cast a pall over the credit markets today, economists said. Bond prices had been making a smart recovery from two days of heavy selling when Citibank surprised the market by announcing a quarter-point increase in its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct. Chase Manhattan quickly followed. Prices quickly fell by a full point, even though the dollar - the market's overriding concern of late - rose sharply on the news. Citibank cited the higher cost of money, especially in the Euromarket, as the reason for raising its prime rate. Part of this rise in market rates has been caused by fears of a tighter Federal Reserve policy to defend the dollar, but economists said it is too early to tell whether the Fed, whose policy-making federal open market committee, FOMC, meets this week, is already tightening its grip on credit. "The Fed seems to have been a bit slow in meeting the banking system's reserve needs this statement period, but I wouldn't conclude anything until I've seen the Fed data," said Jeffrey Leeds of Chemical Bank. REUTER^M 
THIRD MARINE ARRESTED; U.S. PRESSES SPY PROBE

A second U.S. Marine has been charged with spying and a third arrested on suspicion of lying about contacts with Soviet women in a growing scandal involving the American Embassy in Moscow. The Pentagon made the announcements yesterday and the State Department said U.S. Ambassador to Thailand William Brown had been called home to supervise a security review of the embassy, which is alleged to have been penetrated by Soviet KGB agents helped by Marine guards. Brown is an ex-Marine who once was an economic officer at the Moscow mission. Marine Cpl. Arnold Bracy, 21, was charged yesterday with espionage, conspiracy and failure to follow lawful orders in a case which U.S. officials have said involved sex with Soviet women. Sgt. Clayton Lonetree, whose arrest triggered the spy-sex scandal, has already been charged with espionage. Pentagon spokesman Bob Sims told reporters a third Marine, Staff Sgt. Robert Stanley Stufflebeam, 24, who served in Moscow between 1985 and 1986 at the same time as Lonetree and Bracy, was being held on suspicion of lying to investigators about contacts with foreign nationals. Stufflebeam, who was second in command of the embassy guard, is suspected of failure to report all contacts with foreigners and making false official statements in his debriefing when he left the embassy. REUTER 
<ANCHOR SAVINGS BANK> TO TRADE ON NASDAQ

Anchor Savings Bank said it expects to start trading on the NASDAQ system on a when-issued basis on April Seven under the ticker symbol <ABKR>. Anchor recently went public in a subscription offering of 17,595,000 shares that was oversubscribed and increased by 2,295,000 shares from the number originally planned. Reuter 
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER <MHC> RAISES PRIME RATE

Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co became the third major U.S. bank to increase its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, matching a move initiated yesterday by Citibank and Chase Manhattan. The bank, the main subsidiary of Manufacturers Hanover Corp, said the new rate is effective today. Reuter 
IRVING TRUST <V> RAISES PRIME RATE

Irving Trust Co said it is raising its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective immediately. It becomes the fourth U.S. bank to raise the rate, following Citibank, Chase Manhattan and Manufacturers Hanover Trust. Reuter 
HOG REPORT SHOWS MORE HOGS ON FARMS

The USDA quarterly hogs and pig report yesterday showed more hogs on U.S. farms compared to last year as profitability resulting from low grain prices encouraged producers to step up production, analysts said. Most analysts seemed to agree with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders that the report will be viewed as bearish to pork futures and futures prices may open sharply lower today. Some traders and analysts expect limit declines in nearby contracts, with spillover selling likely in cattle. University of Missouri agronomist Glen Grimes said,"The report shows that hog producers have responded to a very desirable feeding ratio that they enjoyed for the past 10 months." Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levitt said hog futures prices are above producers' break even points. Even if futures fell the daily limit of 1.50 cents today, producers could still lock in a profit, which increases the likelihood of heavy selling pressure today. "We have not had a period of profitability of this magnitude since last summer," Levitt said. "In fact, hog operations on many mixed livestock/grain enterprises have been so profitable that it actually enabled some farmers to get back on their feet and refinance their loans just based on the hog operation alone." Levitt said the weight breakdown in the report also was negative, in that some lead time was anticipated before the slaughter increased from the previous year. We expected farmers to increase hog operations, but we didn't expect this degree of expansion to show up in a 10-state spring report, Levitt added. High hog corn ratios (the number of bushels of corn that could be bought for 100 lbs of hog) and the resulting increased profits, encouraged farmers and confinement operations to increase production starting late last year. Analysts also noted that part of the increase in the hog herd resulted from a revision of the December report and without the revision, the March report might have been very close to average expectations. Robin Fuller of Agri Analysis said the USDA made a major upward revision of 105,000 head in the size of the breeding herd in the December 1 report. So the December report was more bearish than initially indicated. But Fuller, as well as other analysts, expected the report to be less negative on deferred futures contracts. Distant contracts are already at a sharp discount to cash because traders anticipated high farrowing intentions, she noted. Discounts in the October and December contracts take into consideration a six to seven pct increase in March/May farrowing intentions, which was borne out in the March 1 report, Fuller said. Grimes said, "As far as the distant months are concerned, if our first quarter pig crop is up only six pct and under 60 lb inventories actually up only five pct, it would take a tremendous discount in price for each percent increase for us to push down to the prices that the current futures show for the July and August period." Jerry Abbenhaus, analyst for AGE Clearing noted that distant futures prices are already 15 to 20 dlrs lower than they were last summer. "If cash hogs at the 7-markets last year averaged 61 dlrs during July, that doesn't mean hogs have to be 15 dlrs cheaper this year because we have six pct more numbers," he said. Reuter 
SENATE LEADER BYRD SEES CLOSE HIGHWAY VOTE

Senate majority leader Robert Byrd said the vote today to override President Reagan's veto of a major highway bill was very close. The Democratic leader told reporters he could not tell them whether the Senate would override or sustain the veto. The House voted to override yesterday. "If the veto is sustained, it won't be because of pork, it will be because of politics," Byrd said. He has contended the White House was applying pressure on Republicans to vote with Reagan. Reuter 
BIOTHERAPEUTICS <BITX> IN NASDAQ EXPANSION

Biotherapeutics Inc said its common stock will be included in the NASDAQ National Market System starting April Seven. As a result, it said the stock will become marginable. Reuter 
AMEX BEGINS TRADING HARCOURT BRACE <HBJ> OPTIONS

The American Stock Exchange said it today opened put and call options trading in the common stock of Harcourt Brace Jovanovice Inc. The exchange said Harcourt Brace is a replacement selection for LTV Corp. The Amex said the initial expiration months for HBJ options are April, May, July and October. Reuter 
U.S. OIL/LARD STATISTICS

U.S. Census Bureau figures released here showed factory and warehouse stocks on Feb 28 included the following, with comparisons, in mln lbs -- 02/28/87 01/31/87 02/28/86 Soybean Oils -- Crude 1,663.3-x 1,542.6 893.7 Refined 300.5-x 294.7-r 287.4 Total 1,963.8-x 1,837.3-r 1,181.1 Cotton Oils -- Crude 65.7 55.8-r 64.5 Refined 122.3 109.6-r 119.6 Total 188.0 165.4-r 184.1 X-Revised from preliminary data released in the bureau's oilseeds report of March 23. R-Revised. Factory and Warehouse Stocks, continued - 02/28/87 01/31/87 02/28/86 Corn Oils -- Crude 32.5 32.3-r 44.2 Refined 65.8 54.4-r 39.9 Total 98.3 86.7-r 84.1 Lard 31.4 31.5-r 36.4 R-Revised. reuter 
CHEMICAL <CHL> RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7-3/4 PCT

Chemical Bank, the main bank subsidiary of Chemical New York Corp, said it is raising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT

Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up. Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped. Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points. CORN SOYBEANS TOLEDO 5 UND MAY UNC 1 UND MAY UNC CINCINNATI 1 UND MAY UNC 1 OVR MAY UP 2 NEW HAVEN 12 UND MAY UNC 2 UND MAY DN 1 N.E. INDIANA 10 UND MAY UNC 2 OVR MAY DN 1 CHICAGO 1/2 OVR MAY UNC 5 UND MAY UNC SENECA 51/2 UND MAY DN 1 7 UND MAY UNC DAVENPORT 61/2UND MAY DN61/2 61/2UND MAY DN11/2 CLINTON 5 UND MAY DN 3 UA CEDAR RAPIDS 11 UND MAY DN 3 13 UND MAY DN 2 HRW WHEAT TOLEDO 58 LB 35 OVR MAY UP 1 CHICAGO 57 LB 25 OVR MAY UNC CINCINNATI DP 10 OVR MAY UNC NE INDIANA DP 8 OVR MAY UNC PIK CERTIFICATES - 103/104 PCT - UNC/ DN 2 NC - NO COMPARISON UA - UNAVAILABLE UNC - UNCHANGED DP - DELAYED PRICING Reuter 
OMB'S MILLER SAYS REAGAN OPPOSES EXCISE TAX HIKES TO
BALANCE U.S. BUDGET



MIDWEST CASH GRAIN - SLOW COUNTRY MOVEMENT

Cash grain dealers reported slow country movement of corn and soybeans across the Midwest, with even corn sales from PIK-and-roll activity seen earlier this week drying up. Some dealers said the USDA may further adjust the posted county price at the Gulf to take into account high barge freight rates as a way to keep corn sales flowing, but added the current plan probably will be given a few weeks to see if it will work as hoped. Corn and soybean basis values continued to drop on the Illinois and MidMississippi River due to the strong barge freight rates. Toledo and Chicago elevators were finishing loading the first corn boats of the new shipping season, supporting spot basis values at those terminal points. Reuter 
MARINE MIDLAND <MMB> RAISES PRIME RATE

Marine Midland Banks Inc said it is raising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-69 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-124 days 70-88 days 5.92 pct 5.90 pct 125-150 days 89-123 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 151-173 days 124-150 days 5.93 pct 5.92 pct 174-182 days 151-349 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 183-349 days 350-360 days 5.98 pct 5.94 pct 350-360 days Reuter 
ASARCO LOWERS COPPER PRICE 1.50 CTS TO 67 CTS

Asarco Inc said it is decreasing its domestic delivered copper cathode price by 1.50 cents to 67.0 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
FED BUYS ONE BILLION DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER

The Federal Reserve is buying one billion dlrs of Treasury bills for customer account for delivery today, a spokesman for the bank said. Fed funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct at the time of the purchase, which came several hours before the Fed normally transacts business for its customers. Economists said the purchase was almost certainly related to the investment of proceeds from recent central bank intervention in the foreign exchanges. The Bank of Japan alone is estimated to have bought about six billion dlrs in March in a bid to prop up the dollar. Reuter 
MILLER SAYS REAGAN OPPOSES U.S. EXCISE TAX HIKES

Office of Management and Budget director James Miller said President Reagan opposes increases in the federal excise taxes on gas, cigarettes or alcohol to help reduce the federal budget deficit. In an address before a group of House Republicans, Miller reiterated Reagan's opposition to an oil import duty. "I think also he would opose an increase in the gas tax." He said there was no reason to think Reagan had changed his opposition to a cigarette tax hike. "In the case of the cigarette tax, we have no evidence the appropriate tax is higher than now, and the same on wine and spirits." Miller urged the Republicans to hold firm against a tax hike to reduce the estimated 174 billion dlr deficit for the 1988 financial year. House Democratic budget writers are expected to recommend an 18 to 20 billion dlr revenue increase as part of the 1988 budget. However, the composition of the taxes would be left to the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee to decide. Reagan's 1988 budget proposed 22 billion in revenue increases from sales of federal assets such as the Amtrak railroad, higher federal fees for services and larger individual payments for social programs. "It's so essential to us to hold on that point of no tax increase," Miller said. He added that House Speaker Jim Wright's proposal to set a new tax on security transactions was "a nonstarter" with the White House. The tax would be a tax on capital which would discourage all but the most profitable short-term transactions and could lead to creation of a duty-free market abroad. "Control spending, get the deficit down and oppose any tax increase," Miller urged the Republicans. Congress has set 108 billion dlrs as its deficit target for 1988. Reuter 
FINLAND ORDERS MCDONNELL DOUGLAS MD-11S

The Finnish national airline <Finnair> said in a statement today it ordered two McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD.N> MD-11 passenger planes for delivery in October 1990 and May 1991 and had taken an option to buy on two more. Finnair chief Gunnar Korhonen would not discuss the price further than telling reporters the planes were "inexpensive," though market sources said the airline could expect a price cut as an earlier customer. Korhonen said Finnair had not opted for Europe's A-340 plane because of uncertainty about the manufacturing of its engines, which may have delayed production of the jet. Reuter 
U.S. VEGETABLE OIL PRODUCTS OUTPUT IN FEBRUARY

U.S. factories used 1,053.0 mln lbs of various vegetable oils in the production of edible products during February, the Census Bureau reported. That compared with a revised usage of 1,075.0 mln lbs in January and 1,084.2 mln lbs in February, 1986. February production of selected products included the following, with comparisons, in mln lbs -- Feb 87 Jan 87 Feb 86 Baking or Frying Fats -- 355.5 387.6-r 427.4 Soybean Salad and Cooking Oil -- 388.1 373.3-r 351.7 R-Revised. Production, continued (in mln lbs --) Feb 87 Jan 87 Feb 86 Other Salad and Cooking Oils 111.2 111.4-r 114.3 Margarine 218.8 216.9-r 214.4 Glycerine -- Crude 21.5 25.9 31.3 Refined 23.5 23.6-r 25.4 Fatty Acids 102.9 112.5-r 113.1 Meat/Meal Tankage 410.2 458.2-r 446.2 R-Revised. REUTER^M 
U.S. TALLOW PRODUCTION AND STOCKS

U.S. factory production of inedible tallow and grease amounted to 421.5 mln lbs in February, vs a revised 471.5 mln lbs the previous month and 419.2 mln lbs in the year-ago period, the Census Bureau said. The bureau placed February factory production of edible tallow at 96.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 111.4 mln lbs the previous month and 122.7 mln lbs in February a year earlier. It estimated factory and warehouse stocks of inedible tallow on February 28 at 410.7 mln lbs, vs a revised 351.6 mln the previous month and 361.9 mln in February, 1986. End-Feb stocks of edible tallow amounted to 41.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 40.1 mln lbs and 48.6 mln lbs in their respective periods. Factory consumption of inedible tallow and grease in February was assessed at 238.3 mln lbs, vs a revised 250.4 mln lbs a month earlier and 220.5 mln lbs in the year-ago period. During February, factories used 65.3 mln lbs of edible tallow, vs a revised 71.8 mln and 84.6 mln, respectively. Total factory production and consumption of tallow in the 1987 marketing season, which began Jan 1, vs the 1986 season, were as follows, in mln lbs -- Production -- 1987 1986 Inedible 893.0 920.1 Edible 208.3 274.7 Consumption -- Inedible 488.7 473.7 Edible 137.1 176.4 Reuter 
MERCANTILE BANK N.A. <MTRC> RAISES PRIME RATE

Mercantile Bancorp said its Mercantile Bank N.A. raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
U.S. LARD CONSUMPTION IN FEBRUARY

U.S. factory usage of lard in the production of both edible and inedible products during February totaled 22.0 mln lbs, vs a revised 20.2 mln lbs in January, according to Census Bureau figures. In the year-earlier period, usage, which includes hydrogenated vegetable and animal fats and other oils in process, amounted to 31.4 mln lbs. Usage in February comprised 16.6 mln lbs of edible products and 5.4 mln lbs of inedible products. Total lard usage in the 1986/87 marketing season, which began October 1, amounted to 125.2 mln lbs, vs 185.6 mln lbs in the year-ago period. Reuter 
CENTURY BUSINESS CREDIT <CPY> TO MAKE STATEMENT

Century Business Credit Corp said it will make an announcement concerning its delay on the American Stock Exchange this morning. President Andrew Tananbaum said the announcement will follow a regularly-scheduled board meeting. Reuter 
CERTIFICATED COTTON STOCKS

Certificated cotton stocks deliverable on the New York Cotton Exchange No 2 cotton futures contract as of March 31 were reported at 36,659 bales, unchanged from the previous day's figure. There were no bales awaiting review and 985 bales awaiting decertification. Reuter 
U.S., ARGENTINA SETTLE SOYPRODUCT CASE - YEUTTER

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said the United States and Argentina have settled a case brought by the U.S. soybean crushing industry alleging unfair subsidies to Argentina's crushing industry. Speaking to an Agribusiness Education forum here late yesterday, Yeutter said the case was resolved at a meeting with Argentine Agriculture Secretary Ernesto Figuerras during a trade ministers' meeting in New Zealand last week. Under a verbal understanding between the two ministers, Argentina will soon abolish export taxes on soybeans and products, U.S. and Argentine officials said. The U.S. case brought by the U.S. National Soybean Processors Association alleged Argentina, through differential export taxes, implicitly subsidized domestic soybean crushers. The U.S. crushing industry, in its complaint under Section 301 of trade law, said higher Argentine export taxes on soybeans than on products encourage the export of products and represented an unfair trade practice. Yeutter told Figuerras that all agencies of the U.S. government supported the U.S. complaint and unless Argentina took steps to eliminate the taxes, the United States would consider taking further action in the case, U.S. and Argentine officials said. An Argentine official here said no timetable was given for removal of the Argentine export taxes. Reuter 
CIBA-GEIGY UNIT SPINS OFF INTO OPERATING GROUP

<Ciba-Geigy Ltd> announced the formation of its Ciba Vision Group, becoming the first group within the corporate structure to carry the Ciba name. The Swiss-based pharmaceutical giant said the new group, which formerly operated under its U.S. pharmaceutical division, represents the first time Ciba has developed an operating group from within its corporate structure. It said other operating groups have been established through acquisitions. Ciba's Vision Group will be headed by James MacDonald, president and chief operating officer. MacDonald said the group will be based outside of Frankfurt, W. Germany, near its research and development facility. Sales from the group in 1986 were approximately 160 mln dlrs, the company said. "The designation of Ciba Vision as an independent operating group underscores Ciba-Geigy's anticipation of continued growth," MacDonald told a group of reporters. Silvano Ghirardi, head of the group's international marketing operations, said he expects Ciba Vision to become possibly the second leading vision care products company in the industry by the end of the year. Bausch and Lomb <BOL>, he said, was the industry leader. "Right now we are trying to solidify the group and bring it together under one group," Ghirardi said. Ghiirardi told Reuters the group considered Japan one of the prime markets in which it intends to expand. MacDonald told reporters the group planned to expand through acquisition and internal growth. He said Ciba Vision's sales have grown an average of more than 200 pct a year since 1981, the year after the group was formed. Reuter 
CONTINENTAL ILLINOIS <CIL> RAISES PRIME RATE

Continental Illinois Corp said it has raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 from 7-1/2. Reuter 
HOWARD BAKER AIDE EXPECTED TO GET TOP JOB

The White House is expected today to name Thomas Griscom, a longtime aide to chief of staff Howard Baker, as President Reagan's communications director. Officials said an announcement was expected to be made during Reagan's trip to Philadelphia where the president is to make a speech to a group of doctors on the deadly disease AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome). Griscom, 37, was brought into the White House by former Senator Baker to help with the transition after Baker was named chief of staff following the resignation of Donald Regan in the wake of the Iran arms scandal. He will take the job vacated by Patrick Buchanan, a high-profile conservative, who served two years as communications director. Reuter 
TREASURY STRENGTHENS TAX ENFORCEMENT, BAKER SAYS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said his department needs additional funds next year to ensure a smooth transition to the new tax code and to strengthen enforcement of the tax laws. In testimony prepared for a House Appropriations subcommittee, Baker said the Treasury expects the lower marginal tax rates in last year's tax reform law to themselves promote taxpayer compliance and bring in additional revenue. The Treasury is requesting 7.2 billion dlrs for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. Its current year budget is 6.5 billion dlrs. Reuter 
SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER

Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz' visit later this month to Moscow. Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscow's decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects. Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13. Shultz' statement two weeks ago that he would not stand in the way of a wheat subsidy offer under the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, coupled with the announcement of his visit to Moscow, was interpreted by many grain trade representatives here as a clear signal that the Reagan administration was preparing an offer. Administration officials -- in and out of the U.S. Agriculture Department -- have been extremely tight-lipped about the prospects of a subsidy offer. But USDA officials for the most part have abandoned the contention the proposal is dormant, suggesting that an offer, while not a "done deal," is a live possibility. Prominent U.S. grain trade representatives -- many of whom asked not to be identified -- continue to maintain that an offer to subsidize four mln tonnes of wheat is imminent. Others, who one month ago claimed a deal was not possible, are saying they would not rule one out. Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., yesterday went so far as to predict a subsidy offer would be made within the next ten days to two weeks. Aides to Roberts said he had spoken to Republican leaders who had been in contact with administration officials. Richard Fritz, director of international marketing at U.S. Wheat Associates, said he was confident an export enhancement offer would be made by the middle of this month. Fritz also said he thought the value of the bonus would end up being close to the offer Washington made Peking earlier this year when USDA approved subsidies to China of around 36 dlrs per tonne on one mln tonnes of wheat. Some grain trade representatives say a four-mln-tonne wheat subsidy offer might help stimulate more Soviet purchases of U.S. corn and open the door to U.S. sales of soybeans. As ever, one of the crucial sticking points in a wheat deal would appear to be price. Last summer the administration took the controversial step of offering the Soviets subsidized wheat -- but were embarrassed when Moscow spurned the proposal on the grounds that the 15-dlr-per-tonne subsidy still left U.S. wheat prices far above world market prices. The administration's decision to set the subsidy level up front instead of accepting bids from exporters appeared to be a means of controlling the price while attempting to dampen criticism, grain trade sources said. Nonetheless, the pricing procedure did not prevent Shultz from saying the Soviets were "chortling" because Washington was offering Soviet housewives cheaper grain than that available to U.S. housewives. The conventional wisdom among grain trade representatives here is that a general warming of relations between the two countries since last summer, combined with continued hard times in the U.S. grain belt, would favor a subsidy offer. In addition, the USSR has made it clear it would consider buying U.S. wheat if it were priced more competitively. However, observers have not forgotten the circumstances surrounding the administration's announcement of the wheat subsidy offer last summer. Up until the time of the announcment, congressional and industry leaders were led to believe the White House had decided to expand the Export Enhancement Program to include not only the Soviets, but also a much broader list of countries. Instead, the administration scaled back the offer to include only the Soviets. That last-minute change of heart adds a measure of uncertainty even to the predictions of those most convinced that the administration will not now pass up the opportunity to sell four mln tonnes of wheat to the Soviet Union. Reuter 
SHULTZ USSR TRIP FUELS TALK OF EEP WHEAT OFFER

Speculation the United States will offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union appears to have reached a new level of intensity in the run-up to Secretary of State George Shultz' visit later this month to Moscow. Rumors of an impending deal have coursed through wheat markets since officials from the two countries held their customary, semi-annual grain talks in February. Moscow's decision at that time to reenter the U.S. corn market strengthened the perception of warming farm trade prospects. Shultz is set to arrive in Moscow April 13. Reuter 
FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES

The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 32 days 6.00 pct 6.10 pct 1 day Reuter 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 5.00 pct 30-69 days 5.92 pct 70-88 days 30-123 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 89-123 days 124-150 days 5.93 pct 5.93 pct 124-150 days 151-349 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 151-349 days 350-360 days 5.98 pct 5.98 pct 350-360 days Reuter 
CYPRUS LOWERS COPPER PRICE 1.25 CTS TO 67 CTS

Cyprus Minerals Company said it is decreasing its electrolytic copper cathode price by 1.25 cents to 67.0 cents a pound, effective immediately. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER HOPES PRIME RATE RISE TEMPORARY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he hopes yesterday's small increase in two major money center banks' prime rate was a temporary phenomenon. "I hope it was a temporary blip upward," he told a House Appropriations subcommittee. He said the decline in interest rates since President Reagan took office remains "one of the significant accomplishments, in the economic area, of this administration." Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS JAPAN TARIFF ACTION NOT START
OF TRADE WAR



FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-123 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-123 days 124-150 days 5.90 pct 5.93 pct 124-150 days 151-349 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 151-349 days 350-360 days 5.96 pct 5.98 pct 350-360 days Reuter 
BETHLEHEM STEEL <BS> SETS PLATE PRICE INCREASES

Bethlehem Steel Corp said its base price for carbon plates and high-strength and low-alloy plates will be increased by 25 dlrs to 405 dlrs a short ton, effective July one. The company said its composite prices for alloy plates will also be increased 25 dlrs per ton on the same date, adding it does not publish its prices for this product. Bethlehem Steel said its composite prices for strip mill plates will be increased 15 dlrs a ton. Reuter 
SENATE UPHOLDS REAGAN'S VETO BUT WILL REVOTE

The Senate voted to sustain President Reagan's veto of an 88 billion dlr highway and mass transit funding bill, but Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia called for a second vote to reconsider the outcome. The first vote ended with 65 Senators voting for the bill and 35 voting to sustain the veto, two short of the two-thirds majority needed to override. One of those voting to sustain the veto was North Carolina Democrat Terry Sanford. Reuter 
U.S. SAID PROMISED BULK OF MAIZE EXPORT TO SPAIN

The U.S. Has been promised a near monopoly of maize exports to Spain from third countries guaranteed under an agreement with the European Community, an EC official said. The official, who asked not to be named, told Reuters that the guarantee was given in an unpublished clause of the agreement. Under the accord, which began in January, third countries were guaranteed access for the next four years for two mln tonnes a year of maize to the Spanish market, as well as 300,000 tonnes of sorghum. However, the official said the U.S. Had been assured that almost all the exports would be reserved for its traders. The EC Commission is to ask member states to agree either a tender system to fix reduced import levies for the maize or to authorise direct imports by the Spanish intervention board. EC sources noted that under a tender system maize from outside the U.S. Would sometimes be offered on more favourable terms than that from the U.S. No Commission spokesman was immediately available for comment. Reuter 
ARGENTINE CORN SALES TO USSR LOWER - USDA REPORT

Total corn sales by Argentina to the Soviet Union are only 1.5 to 1.8 mln tonnes, with delivery spread out from March to June, the U.S. Agriculture Department's Counselor in Buenos Aires said in a field report. The report, dated March 27, said many sources have stated that the Soviet Union was initially interested in purchasing 2.3 mln tonnes lof corn from Argentina. However, Soviet purchases from the United States have tended to displace additional Argentine purchases, the report said. The USDA has to date reported USSR purchases of 2.6 mln tonnes of U.S. corn for delivery in the current U.S.-USSR grain agreement year, which ends this September 30, it said. Reuter 
AKZO UNIT CONCLUDES LICENCE AGREEMENT WITH BASF

Enka BV, a subsidiary of Akzo NV <AKZO.AS> said it has concluded a licence agreement with the fibres division of <BASF Corp> of Delaware, a unit of BASF AG <BASF.F> of West Germany in the U.S. On the Colback industrial non-woven fibres. Enka will supply know-how on the production of non-woven fibres and Basf will also purchase the right for production and sale of the Colback products. BASF will start non-woven fibre production in the U.S. In 1988, Enka said. A spokesman for Enka declined to comment on the financial details of the deal. REUTER 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS BRAZIL NOT IN CRISIS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said he did not believe Brazil was currently in a crisis because of its debt situation and hoped the country would resolve its differences with commerical banks through direct negotiations. Answering questions before a House appropriations subcommittee, Baker told a questioner, "I disagree with your crisis characterization" regarding Brazil. He said that while the U.S. Treasury regretted Brazil's interest payment moratorium on commercial bank debt, "We hope and believe they'll resolve this through direct negotiations (with the banks)." Baker said the financial community around the world believes it imperative that Brazil come up with a comprehensive program to adjust its economy. In other comments on foreign debt, Baker said the situation has improved since mid-1982 because the banks are in much better shape and have rebuilt reserves. He also noted interest rates are considerably lower today than they were when the crisis broke out and the rate of increase in debt has slowed considerably. In addition, Baker noted a number of debtors are making reasonably good economic progress, and he cited Mexico in particular. He pointed out that Venezuela, Chile and the Philippines have all reached agreement with commercial banks on debt rescheduling and Argentina was in the midst of negotiations. But he rejected calls for "overnight solutions" to the debt crisis. "There is no chance they can get out (of the debt crisis)," Baker said, unless debtor countries generate economic growth. Baker said the U.S. initiative to shore up debtor nations depends on that concept, and he rejected calls for debt forgiveness, which, he said, would cut debtor nations off from access to private credit. Baker noted that even though Sen. Bill Bradley (D-N.J.) was urging debt relief in his strategy for dealing with the debt situation, "More and more now, he bases this on the concept of growth." Other indicators of progress include, Baker said, debtor nations negotiating better and better terms with commercial banks. "The points over LIBOR are much less," he said. Reuter 
IIF EXECUTIVE SEES INTEREST RATES DECLINING

Institute of International Finance Managing Director Horst Schulmann said that his orgnaization has been forecasting further declines of interest rates in the first half this year and then a levelling off and there is no reason to change that. Speaking to reporters, the bank research group said that the increase in interest rates announced yesterday and other activity in the foreign exchange markets did not indicate a fundamental change in the outlook. Schulmann, speaking broadly about the global debt problem, said that the International Monetary Fund should increase its assistance to third world countries. The remarks come just before next week's meeting of the IMF's Interim Committee and the Joint Development Committee of the IMF and World Bank. In a letter to the committee's, the bank group said, "Commercial banks cannot be the dominant supplier of balance of payments finance." Schulmann said that IMF exposure peaked in 1985 and has declined a bit since then. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS

Ten grain ships were loading and 18 were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sources said. ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING Continental Grain, Westwego 1 3 Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 2 0 ADM Growmark 1 4 Bunge Grain, Destrehan 1 0 ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN 1 3 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP 0 1 PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO 1 2 CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE 1 4 CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN 1 0 ZEN-NOH 1 1 reuter 
MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL <MNTL> UNIT LIFTS RATE

Manufacturers National Corp's Manufacturers Bank-Wilmington said it increased the interest rate on its no-fee variable rate MasterCard to 13.6 pct from 13.3 pct. The new interest rate applies to the second quarter. The rate on the card is set quarterly. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY SAYS NO BRAZIL CRISIS

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said he did not believe Brazil was currently in a crisis because of its debt situation and hoped the country would resolve its differences with commerical banks through direct negotiations. Answering questions before a House appropriations subcommittee, Baker told a questioner "I disagree with your crisis characterization" regarding Brazil. He said that while the U.S. Treasury regretted Brazil's interest payment moratorium on commercial bank debt, "We hope and believe they'll resolve this through direct negotiations (with the banks)." Baker said the financial community around the world believes it is imperative that Brazil comes up with a comprehensive program to adjust its economy. In other comments on foreign debt, Baker said that the situation has improved since mid-1982 because the banks are in much better shape and have rebuilt reserves. He also noted interest rates are considerably lower today than they were when the crisis broke out and the rate of increase in debt has slowed considerably. In addition, Baker noted a number of debtors are making reasonably good economic progress, and he cited Mexico in particular. Reuter 
NASD DENIES APPLICATION

The National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. denied Kirk Knapp's application to become a registered member of the firm. NASD's board of governors said it denied the application of Knapp to become registered with K.A. Knapp and Co, located in Grand Rapids, Mich. The board said it based its decision on two statutory disqualifications. In the first case, the board said it found Knapp failed to maintain rquired net capital, filed inaccurate Focus Part 1 reports and inaccurately calculated the amount required to be on deposit in the Special Reserve Account. The second case involved Knapp being enjoined from violations of sections of the Securities Exchange Act, the NASD said. Reuter 
BANKERS TRUST <BT> RAISES PRIME LENDING RATE

Bankers Trust Co said it has raised its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective immediately. This move is the latest in a series of similar actions by leading U.S. money center banks, including Citibank NA and Chase Manhattan Bank NA, over the last 24 hours. AmeriTrust Corp of Ohio also raised its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective tomorrow. Reuter 
BOATMEN'S NATIONAL BANK <BOAT> RAISES PRIME

Boatmen's Bancshares said its Boatmen's National Bank raised the prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
FINNAIR TO BUY TWO MCDONNELL DOUGLAS AIRCRAFTS

McDonnell Douglas Corp <MD> said Finnair, the national airline of Finland, will purchase two McDonnell Douglas MD-11 advanced long-range tri-jets with options for two more. Terms were not immediately disclosed. The first of the aircraft will be delivered in October 1990 and the second in May 1991. Reuter 
FIRST WISCONSIN NAT'L BANK<FWB> HIKES PRIME RATE

First Wisconsin National Bank said it has raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective today. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER BACKS HOUSE PANEL'S FSLIC BILL

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the administration backs the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp (FSLIC) recapitalization bill approved by the House Banking Committee and opposes the Senate-passed version. Baker told a House Appropriations Subcommittee the 15 billion dlr recapitalization plan approved by the House panel was sufficient while the 7.5 billion dlr plan in the Senate-passed bill was "inadequate." He also urged the House to reject loophole-closing provisions in the Senate bill that would restrict banking activities. Reuter 
SUNTRUST BANKS <STI> RAISES PRIME TO 7-3/4 PCT

SunTrust Banks said that Sun Banks in Florida and Trust Co banks in Georgia have raised their prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct. The company said the action is effective immediately. Reuter 
EHRLICH BOBER <EB> STARTS TRADING ON AMEX

Ehrlich Bober Financial Corp said its common stock has started trading on the <American Stock Exchange>. The stock had been traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
FIRST BANK SYSTEMS <FBS> UNITS HIKE RATE

First Bank Minneaplois and First Bank Saint Paul, both units of First Bank Systems Inc, said they raised their reference rates to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct. Reuter 
CURRENCY INTERVENTION TIMING CRUCIAL - ANALYSTS

The dollar's recent decline, despite massive central bank purchases, is a forceful reminder that official intervention in the foreign exchanges can work only if it is well-timed to coincide with shifts in market fundamentals or sentiment, dealers and analysts said. Central banks may succeed in slowing a trend, but, without accompanying policy changes, they stand little chance of reversing the direction of an ever-growing global market in which more than 200 billion dlrs is traded every day, the sources said. "Timing and psychology are the key to successful intervention," said Jim O'Neill, a financial markets economist with Marine Midland Banks Inc. The importance of complementary changes in economic fundamentals was underlined yesterday when a change in interest rates boosted the dollar, instantly achieving what the central banks had tried in vain to do for a week through open market intervention. After Citibank raised its prime rate by a quarter-point to 7-3/4 pct, the first change in the rate since last August, the dollar started to advance and reached a high in Tokyo of 147.50 yen, up two yen from Tuesday's New York low. By contrast, monetary authorities spearheaded by the Bank of Japan are estimated to have bought as much as 10 billion dlrs in the last 10 days of March but could not prevent the dollar from skidding through 150 yen and plumbing a 40-year low Monday of 144.70 yen. Some experts worry the central banks have lost more than just a temporary battle to prop up the dollar. The market is wary of being caught wrong-footed by a central bank foray, but is no longer mesmerized. "They've lost their credibility. The market feels it can take on the central banks and win," said Michael Snow, head of treasury operations at Union Bank of Switzerland in New York. The relative failure of recent intervention stands in sharp contrast to the success that central banks scored when they joined forces to drive the dollar down following the September 22, 1985, Plaza accord. Then, however, central banks had an easy time of it, because the markets and the Treasuries of the major industrial powers were agreed that the dollar needed to head lower to redress massive worldwide trade imbalances. Now, there is no such consensus. The market is saying that the dollar must fall further because the U.S. trade deficit is showing little sign of improvement, while Japan is resisting in a bid to protect its export industries. For its part, the United States is apparently content to let the dollar fall gradually further and is paying little more than lip service to the February Paris agreement of the Group of Five plus Canada to foster stability, dealers say. Specifically, they said the Fed's dollar-buying intervention has been half-hearted, designed more as a political gesture to Japan than to strike fear into the markets. "It's been pro-forma intervention," said Francoise Soares-Kemp, chief corporate trader at Credit Lyonnais. Because of this discord and the market's momentum for a lower dollar, analysts said intervention looks doomed to fail. "It's going to take a lot more than the central banks to hold the dollar (at these levels)," said Snow, who predicts another 10 to 15 pct depreciation. "There have to be structural changes that occur to make the market stop selling dollars," added "Buying six billion dollars in three weeks is not going to do it." Late last decade during the presidency of Jimmy Carter, when the dollar was last under heavy speculative attack, central banks sometimes intervened to the tune of six billion dlrs in a single day but still failed to stop the dollar falling to a record low of 1.70 marks, analysts said. Snow said purchases on that scale now are unlikely. "I don't think anybody has the stomach for it, because they saw the futility of it in the seventies." Indeed, because the market has grown in leaps and bound since then, intervention on an even greater scale would probably be needed to impress the market. Trading volume in London, New York and Tokyo alone last year averaged nearly 188 billion dlrs a day, according to a joint central bank study, about double the previous estimate made just two years earlier by the Group of Thirty private research group. There are signs that central banks, too, realize the futility of swimming against the tide. Bank of Japan sources told Reuters in Tokyo earlier this week that they believed the limits of currency market intervention are perhaps being reached and that other methods for bolstering the dollar, such as invoking currency swap agreements with other central banks, are being considered. "In this era of financial liberalization, it's almost impossible to control the flow of capital in and out of Japan," one senior official in Tokyo said. Reuter 
CHIRAC SAYS FRANCE RESOLVED TO SUPPORT CURRENCY PACT

French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac said that on financial issues, the United States and France had "very close" views, and he said Treasury Secretary James Baker was determined to support the February 22 Paris agreement on stabilizing foreign exchange parities. "I was very reassured by the determination of Mr. Baker to support this agreement," he said. He described the dollar's sharp fall against the yen at the start of the week as a "passing incident" and added, "Everyone is resolved to support the Paris accord." Questioned about his plan to help the world's poorest countries, Chirac said he did not envisage any large-scale debt write-offs. "I don't think we can talk of write-offs - even the poorest countries have not asked for that," he said. Chirac said he wanted commercial banks to give third world countries better terms in rescheduling their debts, and for the International Monetary Fund to soften its conditions. "One cannot pity the banks - they bear a lot of responsibility due to the encouragement they gave to these countries to take on debts. Now the banks are complaining but I do not weep for them." Reuter 
MORE U.S. BANKS JOIN IN PRIME RATE CUT

Chemical Bank, the main bank subsidiary of Chemical New York Corp, and Marine Midland Banks Inc said they were raising the prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. In St Louis, Mercantile Bancorp said its Mercantile Bank N.A. was also raising its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. The changes follow similar cuts yesterday by Citicorp and Chase Manhattan. Reuter 
AGENCY REPORTS 41 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL

The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its daily operations report that there was a backlog of 41 ships waiting to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects -- 4/01 4/02 Due: 34 34 Scheduled to Transit: 41 39 End-Day Backlog: 34 29 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels North End: 25 hrs 11 hrs South End: 24 hrs 31 hrs Reuter 
FED BUYS 550 MLN DLRS OF BILLS FOR CUSTOMER

The Federal Reserve bought about 550 mln dlrs of U.S. Treasury bills for a customer, a spokeswoman said. She said the Fed bought bills maturing from May through September 24 for regular delivery tomorrow. Federal funds were trading at 6-3/16 pct when the Fed announced the operation. Reuter 
U.S. FARM REORGANIZATIONS PROVING COSTLY - GAO

U.S. farmers who reorganize their operations to circumvent a cap on federal payments could add 2.3 billion dlrs to the cost of the government's agricultural programs by 1989, the General Accounting Office, GAO, said. "We estimate that should the trend in farm reorganizations continue, reorganizations since 1984 could be adding almost 900 mln dlrs annually to program costs by 1989," GAO Senior Associate Director Brian Crowley said. "Cumulative costs for the six-year period, 1984 to 1989, could approach 2.3 billion dlrs," he said. Between 1984 and 1986, reorganizations added almost 9,000 new persons to U.S. Agriculture Department payment rolls, Crowley told the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Wheat, Soybeans and Feedgrains. Reuter 
U.S. ATTORNEY GIULIANI SAYS HE OFFERED SEC POST

U.S. Attorney for Manhattan Rudolph Giuliani, who has been leading a major probe into government corruption and the Mafia, said he was offered a top job at the Securities and Exchange Commission. But added he had no plans to take that job. Newspaper reports have said Giuliani was offered the chairmanship of the SEC, but he declined to say what position he was offered at the federal agency. Speaking to reporters after a press conference called to announce the corruption indictment of a former city official, Giuliani said he had talks at the White House with chief of staff Howard Baker last month about the SEC. "Right now I am still here. I have no intention of leaving....This is not a good time for me to leave. I have a few more months of work to do and I don't think they should hold a job open for me," Giuliani said in a reference to the ongoing probes his office is conducting into New York city corruption and the Mafia. He added that he also had feelers from two people as to whether he would be interested in the FBI director's post and said he informed them that he was not interested. Reuter 
NY ANALYSTS SEE COFFEE FUTURES FALLING FURTHER

New York coffee futures prices will probably fall to about 85 cents a lb in the next month before a consolidation trend sets in, according to market analysts. Yesterday, prices for the spot May contract fell below 1.00 dlr a lb for the first time since August 1981 after the International Coffee Organization did not place new export quota discussions on its current agenda. Talks aimed at renegotiating ICO export quotas, after five years of price-supporting agreements, broke down in February. "Short-term, it looks like a definite test of 90 cents, perhaps 85 cents," said William O'Neill, coffee analyst with Elders Futures. "But the additional downside may not be all that great from current levels." "At this price level the market is very vulnerable to bullish developments," O'Neill added. "Rather than us having a market that will plummet we'll kind of see prices erode -- probably to around 85 cents." "I definitely see 90 cents and would not rule out a brief drop to 85 cents," said Debra Tropp, a coffee analyst with Prudential Bache. But she said by June worries about a freeze in Brazil growing areas will become more of a market factor, with prices likely to consolidate ahead of that time. A trader at a major international trade house, who asked not to be named, said he expects a 10 cent drop near term but believes if Brazil opens May registrations at a relatively high export price and requires a high contribution quota from exporters the market could steady at the lower levels. Longer term, he added, producer pressure will mount on Brazil to agree to consumers' export quota terms, and a new international agreement could come into force next fall. Since the February talks broke down, the market has fallen from about 130.00 cents a lb to a low of 98.10 cents a lb today, as buyers and sellers sought to reassess supply and demand. Generally, analysts say, producers have a large buildup of stocks, but U.S. roasters have drawn down supplies and will need to do some buying soon. "Most producing nations have just completed or are about to complete their annual harvests and exportable supplies are at their seasonal peak. Exports remain behind year ago and warehouses in producer nations are becoming increasingly overburdened," said Sandra Kaul, coffee analyst for Shearson Lehman, in that firm's forthcoming quarterly coffee report. Kaul said producers' need to procure hard currency to service foreign debt will put further pressure on them to sell, and "this should keep substantial pressure on exporters to undertake sales despite the drop in prices to six year lows." Kaul believes the market will drop to 80 cents a lb before Brazil's frost season begins in June. Accurate assessments of roaster demand are hard to come by, though analysts note the peak winter consumption period is passed and demand usually slows this time of year. Shearson's Kaul estimated U.S. roaster ending stocks as of January 31, including soluble and roasted, at 6.3 mln bags compared with 6.9 mln at end-September 1986, a small drawdown for the usually busy winter roasting season. But Elders O'Neill said, "The roasters are not overstocked by any means." Analysts said picking a bottom to the market is difficult, given the fact prices have fallen into uncharted territory below the long-term support at 1.00 dlr per lb, and several traders said the sidelines might be preferable for the short term. Reuter 
ENERGY/U.S. REFINING

U.S. refiners said they are worried that growing supplies of imports, proposed federal environmental regulations, and the marketing of a third grade of unleaded gasoline would cost them dearly and at a time when the industry is recovering from a recent slump. "We have to look at national security and cut the amount of products and crude coming into the country if it hurts the industry," said Archie Dunham, vice president of petroleum products at Conoco, subsidiary of DuPont Corp (DD). U.S. oil imports account for about 38 pct of U.S. consumption but are expected to rise to 50 pct by the mid 1990s, according to the Department of Energy. "Can we afford to import 60 or 70 pct of our oil requirements 15 or so years from now?" asked John Swearingen, chairman of the board of Continental Illinois Corp <CIL> and former chief executive of Amoco Corp <AN>. "If your answer to that question raises doubt, then it behooves us to do all that we can now to cope with this situation and improve our position." But Swearingen said he opposed the idea of an import fee, a view echoed by others attending this week's National Petroleum Refiners Association meeting in San Antonio, Texas. "Talk of an import surcharge or controls is not encouraging because those things won't solve our problems and could well compound them," said Swearingen. "Once the government affects values, once an import quota or license has value, it's going to be subverted by government," he added. William Martin, deputy Energy Secretary, said the costs of an import fee outweigh its benefits and suggested, as Energy Secretary John Herrington has, depletion tax credits to encourage domestic production and limit oil imports. He also said altnerative energy sources should be encouraged. Restoration of the depletion allowance for a 27 pct deduction from the taxable income of oil companies is controversal but might work, said Dunham. Dunham and other officials opposed the idea of a fee on oil imports but said if one is enacted it must tax crude and product imports. "Why would companies import crude when they could import products for a smaller cost if there were only a fee on crude?" asked Henry Rosenberg, chairman of Crown Central Petroleum <CNP>. An import fee would raise the costs of U.S. petrochemical products and make them noncompetive on the world market, Dunham said. "The energy security issue should be considered when environmental issues are considered," Martin said. "The level of investment for the proposed lowering of sulfur level of diesel to 0.05 pct by weight, for example, is unacceptable," Dunham said. "Most companies cannot afford it." George Unzelman, president of HyOx, Inc., said these proposals "will place pressure on small refining operations and promote further industry consolidation." An NPRA survey of of 139 refineries, which was released at the conference, said reducing sulphur content to 0.05 pct weight and aromatics to 20 volume pct aromatics in highway diesel fuel would cost refiners 6.65 billion dlrs. The national average diesel fuel sulfur content in 1986 for the survey respondents was 0.27 weight pct while the average aromatics content was 32 pct. Another possible cost to refiners is the upgrading of facilities to produce a third grade of unleaded gasoline which is beginning to be marketed by some companies. "What will be the standard octane level in various grades of unleaded gasoline?" asked Dunham. "A midlevel grade of unleaded gasoline with an octane level of 89 means an investment has to be made," Dunham said. This grade is not warranted, said Crown's Rosenberg. Despite these concerns, refiners are expecting margins to move higher in the next few months. "We are beginning to see a return in wholesale margins," said Roger Hemminghaus, chairman of the refining and marketing company that is to spin off from Diamond Shamrock Corp <DIA>. Margins are higher because the OPEC pact is holding, U.S. stocks of gasoline and heating oil are declining, and gasoline demand is rising as the driving season approaches, he said. "This summer could be a good season for selling gasoline," Hemminghaus said, adding that the new company will be primarily a gasoline producer. Reuter 
MAGMA LOWERS COPPER PRICE 0.25 CT TO 65.50 CTS

Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is lowering its copper cathode price by 0.25 cent to 65.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
INSPIRATION LOWERS COPPER PRICE TO 66.50 CTS/LB

Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co, a subsidiary of Inspiration Resources Corp, said it is lowering its base price for full-plate copper cathodes one-half cent to 66.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
BANK OF NEW YORK <BK> RAISES PRIME TO 7-3/4 PCT

Bank of New York said it raised its prime lending rate a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct. It said the move is effective immediately. Reuter 
MANUFACTURERS NATIONAL <MNTL> RAISES PRIME

Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit said it increased its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
COMEX RAISES MARGINS FOR SILVER FUTURES

The Commodity Exchange Inc said it is increasing the minimum margins for silver futures contracts, effective at the opening of business Thursday, April 2. The margins for speculative trading will be increased to 2,000 dlrs per contract from 1,300 dlrs and trade hedge margins will rise to 1,400 dlrs from 900 dlrs, the Comex said. Margins are unchanged for gold, copper, and aluminum contracts, it said. Reuter 
MELLON <MEL>, REPUBLIC <RPT> LIFT PRIME RATES

Mellon Bank NA of Pittsburgh and Republic Bank of Dallas have both raised their prime lending rates to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2, effective immediately. Reuter 
GULF BARGE FREIGHT HIGHER IN NEARBYS ON CALL

Gulf barge freight rates continued to show a firmer tone in the nearbys on the assumption that changes in the Gulf posted prices will encourage increases in both PIK-and-roll activity and barges shipments, with a total of 21 barges traded this morning on the ST Louis Merchants' Exchange call session, versus nine yesterday, dealers said. Quotes included - - This week Mississippi River (Granite City, MLA if P/O) traded at 175 pct of tariff, five percentage points above yesterday's bid. - Next week Mississippi (Alton/Granite City, MLA if P/O) bid five points higher at 175 pct, offered at 190. - Five barges each week April MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) traded at yesterday's bid of 170 pct. - April Illinois River (ex Chicago) 160 pct bid, offered 10 points higher at 170. - May same section 140 pct bid, offered five lower at 145. - May MidMississippi River (Dubuque/south) bid 2-1/2 points higher at 142-1/2 pct, offered at 145. - June/July lower Mississippi River (Memphis/Cairo) offered at 120 pct, no bids. - June/Aug upper Mississippi River (Lacrosse/Savage) offered at 150 pct, no bids. - Oct/Nov MidMississippi (Dubuque/south, L/H Nov Clinton/south) 170 pct bid/177-1/2 offered - no comparison. - December Illinois River (ex Chicago) 122-1/2 pct bid/127-1/2 offered - down 2-1/2 points on offer. Reuter 
ROYAL/BANK CANADA UPS U.S. BASE RATE 1/4 PCT TO 8-1/4 PCT



ESTIMATED U.S. POULTRY SLAUGHTER

The United States department of agriculture estimated live poultry slaughter for the week ending April 1 as follows, in thousands - Current Previous Class week week Bro/Fry 92,552 95,563 Lt Fowl 2,840 3,354 Hvy Fowl 651 789 Check Total 96,043 99,706 Reuter 
HARRIS BANK INCREASES ITS PRIME RATE

<The Harris Trust and Savings Bank> said it has increased its prime rate to 7-3/4 from 7-1/2 effective immediately. Reuter 
ANALYSTS SAY USSR MAY PREFER NEW CROP U.S. WHEAT

The Soviet Union would likely be more interested in purchasing new crop wheat than in booking any grain for immediate shipment if offered a subsidy on U.S. wheat, an executive with a major grain export company said. Lower prices and the desire to delay any big purchases until the condition of winter and spring crops is better known make new crop wheat more attractive, said George Hoffman, director of commodity analysis for The Pillsbury Company. "Pillsbury is assuming that they (Soviets) will be offered a subsidy and that it will be a subsidy that they can respond to," Hoffman told Reuters in an interview at an agribusiness education conference here. But if there are too many constraints placed on a subsidy offer, the USSR will take less than an anticipated four mln tonnes, he said. Hoffman said Pillsbury's internal statistics put Soviet Union wheat purchases at only two mln tonnes under a subsidy offer. However, if a subsidy is offered at competitive levels, Moscow would likely buy more, he said. "If we give the Soviets the same deal as the Chinese, I expect they'll take it," said Vernon McMinimy, director of commodity research for A.E. Staley Manufacturing Co. McMinimy told Reuters spring weather and its impact on crops will determine how much wheat Moscow would buy under a subsidy offer. Soviet winter crops did not get off to a good start because of a dry autumn last year, and because of the severe winter "they probably have had more damage due to winter weather than normal," McMinimy said. Reuter 
NYSE SAYS LORAL <LOR> WILL NOT COMMENT ON STOCK

The New York Stock Exchange said Loral Corp told the exchange its policy is not to comment on unusual market activity in its stock. The exchange said it contacted the company and requested that Loral issue a public statement indicating whether any corporate developments would explain the unusual activity in its stock. The stock was trading at 47-1/2, up 2-1/2 points. Reuter 
EGYPT AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 WHEAT FLOUR-USDA

Egypt has been authorized to purchase about 125,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat flour under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It may buy the wheat flour, valued at 23.0 mln dlrs between April 8 and August 31, 1987 and ship it by September 30, the department said. Reuter 
HYDRO-QUEBEC HEARINGS TO REOPEN IN OTTAWA

The National Energy Board said hearings into Hydro-Quebec's request to sell power to the United States will reopen in Ottawa April nine. The board heard nine days of testimony in Montreal after it opened the hearings March 16. Hydro-Quebec is seeking an export license to sell 70 terawatt hours of electricity to the New England Power Pool, a group of about 90 utilities, from the year 1990 to 2000. The contract is valued at three billion Canadian dlrs. A terawatt hour is the power consumed by a city of 100,000 people in one year, or 70 billion kilowatt hours. The hearings are scheduled to last two days in Ottawa. After that, the board will begin its deliberations, which could take as long as two months before a decision is reached. Reuter 
TCF BANKING AND SAVINGS HIKES PRIME RATE

TCF Banking and Savings FA said it is raising its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct effective today. Reuter 
CCC SELLS FARMERS STOCK PEANUTS, OFFERS MORE

The U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) sold 6,034 short tons of 1986-crop farmers stock peanuts for domestic crushing, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The peanuts were from the Southwest area and were sold at between 8.05 cts per lb (total kernel content), and 11.7225 cts per lb, the department said. The CCC will offering additional 1986-peanuts for sale at a later date, the department said. Reuter 
CCC INTEREST RATE FOR APRIL IS SIX PCT -- USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) interest rate on loans disbursed in April will carry a six pct ionterest rate, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The April rate is up from March's 5-7/8 pct and reflects the interest rate charged CCC by the U.S. Treasury, the department said. Reuter 
MOBIL <MOB> RAISES WEST COAST CRUDE POSTINGS

Mobil Corp said it raised its west coast crude postings, effective today. The Buena Vista light grade, at 26 degrees api gravity, was raised 1.35 dlrs a barrel to 15.55 dlrs/bbl, while the Huntington Beach light grade, at 16 degrees, was raised about 1.75 dlrs/bbl to 14.10 dlrs/bbl. The heavier Wilmington grade, at 17 degrees, was increased 1.20 dlrs to 14.30 dlrs/bbl. Kern River crude, at 13 degrees, was increased 1.00 dlr to 13.00 dlrs/bbl. Mobil also said that effective today it changed its gravity adjustment scale as follows: From 20 degrees to 34 degrees API, Mobil will adjust its price 0.015 of a ct per one-tenth of an API degree. Below 20 degrees API, the company will adjust its price 0.020 ct per one-tenth of a degree. Crude grades from 34 degrees API to above 40 degrees are unaffected. Reuter 
BANKAMERICA <BAC> PUTS BRAZIL ON NON-ACCRUAL

BankAmerica Corp said it placed its 1.9 billion dlrs in medium- and long-term term loans to the Brazilian public and private sectors on non-accrual status as of March 31. As a result, the bank's net income for the first quarter will be reduced by about 40 mln dlrs. If Brazil's suspension of interest payments remains in effect, earnings for the whole year will be reduced by a further 100 mln dlrs. BankAmerica said, however, that it expects to report a profit for the first quarter of 1987. BankAmerica also said that it had placed 180 mln dlrs of loans to Ecuador on non-accrual, which will reduce first-quarter earnings by about five mln dlrs. If no interest payments are received for the rest of the year from Ecuador, which is recovering from a severe earthquake, 1987 earnings will be cut by a further 10 mln dlrs. But, "barring substantialy increased instabilities in developing countries," BankAmerica said it continues to anticipate an operating profit in 1987. In the first quarter of 1986 BankAmerica earned a profit of 63 mln dlrs but turned in a loss of 518 mln dlrs for the year as a whole. BankAmerica also said it completed yesterday the previously announced sale of its discount brokerage subsidiary, Charles Schwab Corp. The sale was part of a program of asset disposals undertaken to staunch losses at the nation's second largest bank holding company. BankAmerica stressed that it expects Brazil will eventually reach a debt rescheduling agreement which will provide for the payment of interest being deferred in 1987. "Negotiations will be complicated and lengthy, but we continue to expect that a rescheduling agreement will be completed this year," said A.W. Clausen, BankAmerica's chairman and chief executive officer. "For the interim period, however, we concluded that the responsible procedure would be to record income only as we receive payments on the loans," he added in a statement. U.S. banks are not legally required to place loans on non-accrual until interest becomes more than 90 days overdue. By striking accrued, but unpaid, interest from their accounts earlier than necessary, the banks are signalling to Brazil their readiness to dig in for a long fight over the terms of the rescheduling agreement regardless of the short-term earnings impact, banking analysts said. Brazil suspended interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of its 109 billion dlr foreign debt in February, citing a drop in official reserves, and said interest payments would be held on deposit at the central bank pending a rescheduling. It also froze some 16 billion dlrs of short term credit lines which banks were committed to provide until March 31. Reuter 
SECURITY PACIFIC, PROVIDENT NATIONAL LIFT PRIME

Security Pacific National Bank and Provident National Bank said they increased their prime lending rates a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct. They said the move is effective immediately. Reuter 
ATLANTIC TO RAISE HIGH SULPHUR FUEL PRICES

Atlantic Fuels Marketing Corp said today it will raise the posted cargo prices for high sulphur fuels in New York Harbor 50 to 75 cts per barrel, effective April two. The increase brings the prices for two pct sulphur to 19.25 dlrs, up 50 cts, 2.2 pct sulphur to 18.75 dlrs, up 50 cts, 2.5 pct sulphur to 18.50 dlrs, up 50 cts, 2.8 pct sulphur to 18.25 dlrs, up 75 cts, the company said. Posted prices for 0.3 pct and one pct low sulphur fuels were unchanged at 22 and 20 dlrs, it said. Reuter 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON <BKB> RAISES PRIME

The First National Bank of Boston, the main banking unit of Bank of Boston, said it is raising its prime lending rate to 7.75 pct from 7.50 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
FRENCH SUBSIDIZED CORN FOR TUNISIA/MOROCCO-USDA

U.S. corn sales to Tunisia, Morocco and other North African countries may face increased competition from European Community (EC) corn sales, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its World Production and Trade report, the USDA said sales of French corn for nearby delivery have been confirmed with an export subsidy of about 145 dlrs per tonne, bringing the French price to about 72 dlrs per tonne, FOB. While this is about the same price as U.S. corn, EC corn has lower transport costs, the department noted. The French sales mark the beginning of commercial EC corn exports which could reach 750,000 tonnes to North Africa and the Middle East, areas which have traditionally purchased their corn needs from the United States, the department said. Department officials said the 750,000 tonnes of exports are for the year up to September 30 1987. They said export licenses for about 500,000 tonnes have been issued so far. Reuter 
NEW ZEALAND MAY BUY U.S. WHEAT -- USDA

New Zealand may need about 100,000 tonnes of wheat this year, which would normally come from Australia, but may be from the United States, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its report on Export Markets for U.S. Grains, the department said with the deregulation of the New Zealand Wheat Board, which normally imports wheat from Australia, there is the possibility of wheat purchases from the united states since the shipping cost between New Zealand and the Eastern Coast of Australia and the West Coast of the United States are about equal. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND

There were five grain ships loading and three ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter 
USDA REPORT ON CATTLE SLAUGHTER, MEAT PURCHASES

The U.S. Agriculture Department said an estimated 8,700 head of dairy cattle were slaughtered during the week ending March 13 as a result of the Whole Herd Dairy Buyout program. The cumulative total of cattle slaughtered under the program from April 1 through March 13 is estimated at 1,032,300 head, it said. Cumulative meat purchases through March 27 total 376,897,330 lbs, the department said. Dairy cattle reported for export under the program for the period April 1 through March 27 totaled an estimated 55,055 head, the department said. Live cattle exports are in addition to the meat purchase requirements, the department said. Reuter 
MAJOR U.S. BANKS MOVE TO HIGHER 7-3/4 PCT PRIME

Most major U.S. banks today matched Tuesday's quarter-point prime rate cuts by Citibank and Chase Manhattan Bank, the first prime rate boosts since mid-1984. Most cited narrower spreads between the prime and funding costs as justification. Analysts said the prime rate rises may have been triggered partly by a desire by banks to enhance profit margins given problems with developing country loans. Commenting on the prime rate increases, U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker told a House Appropriations Committee that "I hope it was a temporary blip upward." Among the major banks which today announced prime rate increases to 7-3/4 pct were Bankers Trust, Chemical Bank, Continental Illinois National Bank, Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Irving Trust, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co, Marine Midland, and Security Pacific National Bank. Other banking companies announcing prime rate rises included Pittsburgh National Bank, Texas Commerce Bank-Houston, Provident National Bank, First National Bank of Boston, Florida Federal Savings and Loan Association, and SunTrust Banks. Reuter 
UNION BANK RAISES ITS PRIME RATE TO 7.5 PCT

The Union Bank subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC said today it was raising its prime lending rate to 7.75 pct from 7.50 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
FURTHER DECLINES IN U.S. DEBT FUTURES POSSIBLE

After an already steep fall in the past week, U.S. interest rate futures may be in for further declines in the near term, financial analysts said. However, some analysts said recent sharp losses in bond futures have left the bond market somewhat oversold, and the contracts on long-term debt could stage a recovery before resuming their decline. Key to the near-term direction of futures will be the course of the dollar, they said. "As the dollar goes, so goes the bond market," said Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs. The recent decline in the dollar, which hit a 40-year low against the Japanese yen Monday, was reversed Wednesday when several large U.S. money center banks unexpectedly raised their prime lending rates by a quarter point, to 7-3/4 pct. "Even though the prime rate cut was good for the dollar, foreign exchange traders are not convinced the dollar decline is over," Gibbs said. The dollar decline was key in recent weakness in debt futures as it rekindled concern about a pickup in inflation. Indeed, the falling dollar may have been a key topic at the meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy making arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, this week, analysts said. "To the Fed, the combination of a falling dollar, a steepening yield curve, and rising commodity prices look suspiciously like the traces of expectations of accelerating inflation," said Denis Karnosky, analyst at Carroll, McEntee and McGinley Inc. Such expectations could mean that "a shift in policy toward restriction of bank reserves is likely to get very serious consideration," at the FOMC meeting, he said. Any such restriction of reserves will not be a highly visible form of monetary tightening, Karnosky said. Rather, the key to detecting a change will be found in seasonal and adjustment borrowing at the discount window, he said. Borrowings have held near a weekly average of 300 mln dlrs over the past several months, he said. In the meantime, however, "the market looks a bit oversold," said Jim Wysoglad, analyst at Golden Gate Futures. Wysoglad said a recovery from the oversold condition could drive June bonds to a high near 99 before falling back to test chart support near the recent low of 97-13/32. Technician Leslie Keefe of Technical Data Corp of Boston said that the key test for June bonds will be whether the nearby contract holds above chart support at 96-24/32. "All previous selloffs since mid-November have stopped and buyers have surfaced at that level," Keefe said. If that level is broken, and the dollar continues to decline, Keefe said she expects the June bond contract to decline to test support between 92 and 93, the primary uptrend line dating back to 1984. Reuter 
USDA GRAIN INSPECTION ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEETING

The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee will meet here Monday, April 13, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. Items on the agenda for the meeting, which is scheduled to begin at 0830 edt, are grain-quality issues, status of proposed regulations, financial matters and safety matters, the department said. The Federal Grain Inspection Service Advisory Committee is composed of 12 members representing the grain industry who provide advice to the administrator of the Federal Grain Inspection Service. Reuter 
COFFEE FUTURES AT SIX-YEAR LOW, UNDER 1 DLR/LB

Coffee futures dipped further today and closed below 1 dlr a pound for the first time in six years. Coffee for delivery in May ended at 99.28 cents a pound on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, down 0.76 cent and the lowest price since August, 1981. Prices have been falling steadily since the International Coffee Organization failed in February to reach an agreement controlling exports by its members, and pressure was renewed this week as the executive board of the organization met in London without reopening debate on its export quotas. The executive board has limited its current discussions to administrative matters and is set to adourn Thursday. Burdensome supplies have pressed the market down from 1.30 dlr a pound in February, when the organization's discussions aimed at re-establishing export quotas broke down. Sandra Kaul, a coffee analyst in New York with Shearson Lehman Brothers, said supplies currently are at their high point for the year because most producing nations have just completed their harvests. In addition, she said, many of those nations are faced with serious debt and need to sell coffee to raise capital. "This should keep substantial pressure on exporters to undertake sales despite the drop in prices," she said. Further, U.S. demand could be sluggish because winter, the period of greatest consumption, is ending. Prices could fall another 10 cents to 15 cnts a pound, analysts said. Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closed steady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The increase in U.S. banks' prime rates prompted concern about renewed inflation, but the strength of the U.S. dollar discouraged new buying. "The market is getting mixed signals and it doesn't know which way to go," one analyst said. Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closed steady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The increase in U.S. banks' prime rates prompted concern about renewed inflation, but the strength of the U.S. dollar discouraged new buying. "The market is getting mixed signals and it doesn't know which way to go," one analyst said. Reuter 
MEXICO BUYS 51,000 TONNES U.S. SOYBEANS

Mexico bought 51,000 tonnes of U.S. number two yellow soybeans in an overnight tender, for various ocean and rail shipments in May, private export sources said. About 40,000 tonnes sold for ocean shipment at prices ranging from 199.67 to 210.17 dlrs per tonne, c and f, and about 11,000 tonnes sold for rail shipment at prices from 205.50 to 217.88 dlrs per tonne, they said. Reuter 
COFFEE FUTURES UNDER DLR A POUND AT SIX-YEAR LOW

Coffee futures dipped further and closed below one dlr a pound for the first time in six years. Coffee for delivery in May ended at 99.28 cents a pound on the New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, down 0.76 cent and the lowest price since August, 1981. Prices have fallen steadily since the International Coffee Organization failed in February to reach an agreement controlling exports by its members, and pressure was renewed this week as the executive board of the organization met in London without reopening debate on its export quotas. The executive board has limited its current discussions to administrative matters and is set to adourn Thursday. Burdensome supplies have pressed the market down from 1.30 dlrs a pound in February, when the organization's discussions aimed at re-establishing export quotas broke down. Sandra Kaul, a coffee analyst in New York with Shearson Lehman Brothers, said supplies currently are at their high point for the year because most producing nations have just completed their harvests. In addition, she said, many of those nations are faced with serious debt and need to sell coffee to raise capital. "This should keep substantial pressure on exporters to undertake sales despite the drop in prices," she said. Further, U.S. demand could be sluggish because winter, the period of greatest consumption, is ending. Prices could fall another 10 to 15 cents a pound, analysts said. Gold futures retreated from modest early gains and closed steady while silver prices rallied on the Commodity Exchange in New York. The increase in U.S. banks' prime rates prompted concern about renewed inflation but the strength of the U.S. dollar discouraged new buying. "The market is getting mixed signals and it doesn't know which way to go," one analyst said. Cattle futures posted new highs on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, while live hogs rallied from early losses and frozen pork bellies finished sharply lower. Cattle prices continued to draw support from the winter storm that swept the Plains states, leaving animals stranded in snowbound fields and feed lots in miserable condition. Live hogs were pressured early by the Agriculture Department's report Tuesday that producers expanded their breeding herds more than the market expected last quarter. Prices recovered to keep pace with higher cash prices. Frozen pork bellies fell sharply on the outlook for greater production and closed with limit losses. Soybean futures posted sharp gains on the Chicago Board of Trade, while corn and wheat were lower. Soybeans rallied in response to Tuesday's USDA report that farmers intend to plant 56.9 mln acres this year, down from 61.5 mln planted last year. Corn prices were pressured by the outlook for 67.6 mln acres of corn, which is down from last year's 76.7 mln acres, but was larger than analysts expected. Reuter 
FEDS OKAY WESTERN CAROLINA SAVINGS CONVERSION

Western Carolina Savings and Loan Association said the Federal Home Loan Bank Board approved the completion of its conversion to a state chartered stock savings and loan from a state chartered mutual bank. Carolina said 575,000 shares were subscribed for at 10 dlrs per share during its initial offering. It said trading will begin in its stock April eight on NASDAQ under the sumbol WCAR. Reuter 






U.S. HOUSE PANEL EXTENDS EEP, URGES USSR OFFER

The U.S. House Agriculture Committee approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union. The proposals were approved as amendments to a comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year. In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee approved several proposals which could restrict imports of lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them, Congressional sources said. The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than the current three years through fiscal 1988. The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from 1.5 billion now. Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct less expensive to operate. The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration make an offer, but urges such action. The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to begin discussions with other major grain producing countries aimed at jointly reducing world grain production. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work. Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said. Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New Zealand and Ireland. The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S. beef imports. Other miscellaneous amendments included: -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove restrictions on beef imports. -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to 800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now. -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier. -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a Canadian countervailing duty case this year. -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax. -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a reorganization of USDA's trade policy apparatus. Reuter 
U.S. FEED SITUATION SUMMARY REPORT DELAYED

The U.S. Agriculture Department said its summary report on the Feed Situation and Outlook, scheduled for release April 24, has been delayed until May 15. The department said the delay will enable analysts to incorporate into the report USDA's first supply and demand estimates for the 1987/88 marketing year and data on farm program participation. Reuter 
EXOTIC NEWCASTLE DISEASE IN MD/NEW YORK-USDA

Exotic Newcastle, a highly contagious disease of pet birds and poultry, has been confirmed in two pet-bird dealer facilities in Maryland, and New York, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said no domestic poultry are involved in the outbreak. State quarantines have been placed on the two facilities, in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and Schenectady, New York. The most serious U.S. outbreak of the disease occurred in 1971-73 in southern California, where the disease spread from infected pet birds to a dense poultry population and nearly 12 mln birds, mostly laying hens, were destroyed at a cost of 56 mln dlrs, the department said. Reuter 
SPRINKEL DENOUNCES PROTECTIONISM

Beryl Sprinkel, Chairman of President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisors, denounced protectionism as a means of addressing the U.S.s' mounting trade imbalance and said stepped-up ecomonic growth would be a more effective means of reducing the deficit. "Rather than risking the outbreak of protectionism we should strive to reduce trade restrictions and to promote a more open system of international trade," Sprinkel said. Sprinkel, in a speech delivered to the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, also said the budget deficit must be reduced through lower government spending in order to promote growth. Reuter 
CME POSTS RECORD TRADING VOLUME IN FIRST QUARTER

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) traded a record 19,656,498 contracts in the first quarter of 1987, up 17 pct from 16,768,145 in the same quarter last year. The previous record for quarterly volume total was established in the third quarter of 1986, when 18,106,452 futures and options were traded at the CME. The record volume for January through March of 1987 included 16.7 mln futures contracts -- up 12 pct compared to 14,918,036 in the 1986 quarter -- and three mln options contracts, up 61 pct over 1,850,109 in the 1986 quarter. Total trading volume for March reached 6,750,431 contracts, up from 5,522,932 in March 1986 for a 22 pct increase and the highest March total ever. Trading in options on futures in March exceeded previous records, with 1,015,327 contracts traded compared to 586,471 in March 1986. The previous record was established in January with 990,010 options contracts traded. March volume included a record 2,247,513 currency futures and options contracts, compared to 2,040,642 a year ago. The previous single-month high of 2,216,682 currency futures and options traded was in September 1986. In currency futures, Canadian dollar futures soared to a record 147,010 contracts traded in March, up 83.2 pct over the 80,256 contracts traded in March 1986. West German mark futures, however, slipped 15.8 pct in March with 561,830 contracts traded compared to 667,041 traded in March 1986. Among interest rate futures, Eurodollar futures contracts increased 90.6 pct to 1,196,731 compared to 627,895 in March 1986. The Standard and Poor's 500, the second most actively traded futures contract anywhere, traded 1,780,538 contracts in March, up 4.9 pct from 1,696,912 in March 1986. Major gains in agricultural futures were posted in March by live hog contracts, up 52 pct to 172,710 contracts from 113,660 a year ago. Live cattle contracts reached 474,156 in March, up 16.2 pct from 408,170 a year ago. Trading in options on futures also was up strongly. Agricultural options on futures soared 142.7 pct in March to 123,643 contracts, up from 50,938 a year ago. Currency options were up 69.2 pct to 469,695 contracts from 277,627 a year ago. Interest rate options climbed 81.3 pct to 217,127 from 119,738 a year ago. And equity options rose 48.3 pct to 204,862 contracts from 138,168 a year ago. In addition, March trading included two single-day volume records: British pound futures traded 35,960 contracts March 9 compared to 33,269 February 19, and Canadian dollar futures traded 20,905 contracts March 11 compared to the previous record of 12,456 set May 12, 1982. Reuter 
EC DENIES MAIZE EXPORTS RESERVED FOR U.S.

The agreement between the U.S. And the European Community (EC) on special imports of maize and sorghum provides an equal chance for all non-EC countries to supply the Spanish market, an EC Commission spokeswoman said. She denied that any unpublished clause of the agreement guaranteed the bulk of the maize export business would go to the U.S., As one EC official told Reuters yesterday. Under the agreement, the EC will import two mln tonnes of maize and 300,000 tonnes of sorghum a year into Spain at specially reduced levy rates for the next four years. The Commission has yet to decide whether the maize will come in through direct purchases by the Spanish intervention board or by a tender system. REUTER 
BANKAMERICA <BACP> RAISES PRIME RATE TO 7.75 PCT

BankAmerica Corp, following moves by other major banks, said it has raised its prime rate to 7.75 pct from 7.50 pct, effective today. Reuter 
SENATE VOTE ON REAGAN'S VETO REMAINS IN DOUBT

A partisan battle over President Reagan's veto of an 88-billion dlr highway bill resumes in the Senate today after an apparent victory for the White House was left in doubt when a key Democrat switched his vote The Senate yesterday had voted to sustain Reagan's veto by a narrow margin, but Democrats moved to reconsider the vote. Terry Sanford of North Carolina, the only Democrat to support Reagan, later said he had decided to vote to override when the bill is reconsidered. If no other votes switch, the Senate would override the veto on reconsideration, Senate Republican leader Robert Dole of Kansas said. He said Reagan and Administration officials would continue to lobby for votes to sustain the veto. "As of right now, the vote would be 67 to 33 (in favor of the bill) and the veto would be overriden," Dole said. After several hours of delay, Senate leaders were unable to agree on a time for a second vote and the Senate recessed until this morning with the issue unresolved. Sanford denied he had been pressured to change his vote, but told the Senate, "I have talked to and have been talked to by a number of senators. I have thought a little more deeply about this vote." The first Senate vote put Reagan on the verge of a political triumph he had sought to show he is rebounding strongly from the Iran arms scandal. 
NP ENERGY <NPEEQ> SAYS TRUSTEE APPOINTED

NP Energy Corp said the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has indicated it will appoint a trustee to oversee the company's Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings. It said it hopes the appointment will thwart "hostile" actions being pursued by two unsecured creditors to whose claims the company objects. NP further said the Nielsen 1-20 well in Duchesne County, Utah, has tested 300 barrels of oil per day. NP owns a 61 pct working interest. Reuter 
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS ROSE IN WEEK

New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 355,000 in the week ended March 21 from 341,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,480,000 in the week ended March 14, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,454,000 the previous week. Reuter 
FIRST CHICAGO <FNB> RAISES PRIME RATE

First Chicago Corp said its First National Bank of Chicago raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
COMERICA <CMCA> RAISES PRIME RATE

Comerica Inc said it raised its prime interest rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective April 1. Reuter 
YEUTTER SAYS U.S. SHOULD STRESS TRADE NEGOTIATIONS AS LONG-TERM U.S. TRADE POLICY



YEUTTER STRESSES IMPORTANCE OF TRADE TALKS

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter stressed the importance of trade negotiations to open foreign markets rather than trade restrictions in a statement to the Senate Finance Committee. "In the long term we cannot repeatedly bludgeon other nations into opening their markets with threats of U.S. restrictions. Rather, we must be able to negotiate credibly for global liberalization," Yeutter said. Yeutter did not mention the recent U.S. trade sanctions against Japanese semiconductors in his testimony on the pending trade bill. Yeutter said the trade bill should increase U.S. competitiveness, aid U.S. trade negotiating leverage, and avoid provoking foreign retaliation. He urged Congress to reject provisions that would mandate U.S. retaliation against foreign unfair trade practices. Yeutter emphasized the importance of the new multilateral trade negotiating round and called on Congress to quickly approve an extension of U.S. negotiating authority. "We want to open foreign markets and establish and enforce rules of international competition, not foster dependence on protection and subsidies," he said. Reuter 
EC MUST EXPLAIN FARM POLICY TO U.S., FRANCE SAYS

The U.S. and the European Community could enter into a new trade dispute unless urgent action is taken to explain EC farm policy to the U.S. Congress, French official sources said. They said Prime Minister Jacques Chirac planned to urge EC Commission president Jacques Delors to send a team of experts to Washington as soon as possible. Chirac returned to Paris this morning after three days of talks in New York and Washington in which trade and protectionism featured prominently. At the centre of the new trade tension is an EC Commission proposal to tax vegetable oils, the sources said. Reuter 
NORTH CAROLINA FEDERAL <NCFS> RAISES PRIME RATE

North Carolina Federal Savings and Loan Association said it has raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective yesterday, following moves by major banks. Reuter 
REAGAN TO LOBBY SENATORS ON HIGHWAY BILL

President Reagan is going to the U.S. Capitol to personally urge senators to support his veto of an 88 billion dlr highway and mass transit funding bill, Republican leader Robert Dole of Kansas said. Reagan will meet with senators at 1115 est/1615 gmt Dole told the senate. Reuter 
USDA DENIES CHANGES IN TEXAS GULF DIFFERENTIALS

No changes have been made or are being planned in the Agriculture Department's calculation of price differentials between interior grain locations and the Texas Gulf, a senior USDA official said. Ralph Klopfenstein, USDA deputy administrator for commodity operations, told Reuters, "We do not anticipate any changes to be made" in the Texas Gulf differentials used to calculate posted county prices for corn. "We do not relate the Texas Gulf structure with the Louisiana Gulf structure at all. It's a totally different situation," he said. Rumors had circulated through the market this morning that USDA had widened Texas Gulf differentials in a similar manner to last weekend's adjustments with the Louisiana Gulf. Reuter 
J.P. MORGAN <JPM> INCREASES PRIME RATE

J.P. Morgan and Co Inc said it is raising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective today. Most major U.S. banks are now posting a 7-3/4 pct rate. Citibank was the first to announce an increase on Tuesday. Reuter 
NO EXTENSION ON U.S. DAIRY HERD BUYOUT - LYNG

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said he would not agree to an extension of the 18-month whole dairy herd buyout program set to expire later this year. Speaking at the Agriculture Department to representatives of the U.S. National Cattlemen's Association, Lyng said some dairymen asked the program be extended. But he said the Reagan administration, which opposed the whole herd buyout program in the 1985 farm bill, would not agree to an extension. The program begun in early 1986, is to be completed this summer. U.S. cattlemen bitterly opposed the scheme, complaining that increased dairy cow slaughter drove cattle prices down last year. Reuter 
U.S. URGED TO STRENGTHEN DEBT STRATEGY

Several industrial nations are pressing the United States to consider whether its debt strategy, under increasing fire in the developing world, needs to be strengthened, monetary sources say. While few nations are ready to pour vast sums of money into radical "debt relief" style solutions to the debt crisis, pressure is building for a greater International Monetary Fund role in the plan. But U.S. officials, who are fighting off demands for change by Congress, are confident they will retain support for their strategy which will probably be endorsed in a communique issued by the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee. One Reagan administration official said a recent discussion among leading industrial countries showed there was "very broad and strong support for continuing the strategy". The official said in an interview, "I don't sense that there's a strong desire to revise the debt strategy, except of course here on (Capitol) Hill." But monetary sources said some industrial nations, like France and Italy, are troubled by signs the strategy is increasingly strained. Britain too is said to be concerned. In late 1985, Washington called on multilateral development banks, like the World Bank, and commercial banks to increase loans to the 15 major debtors by 29 billion dlrs over three years. In return, the major debtors were expected to undertake reforms promoting inflation-free economic growth, more open markets and a reduced government role in the economy. The IMF was to retain a "central role" in the strategy, shifting its economic reform programs from emphasizing austerity to stressing growth, freer trade policies and foreign investment in debtor nations. But monetary sources said some nations want even more flexibility from the IMF when it sets economic programs tied to loans for debtor nations. Such flexibility would include less rigid economic targets -- which often lead to artificial crises when they are not met -- and more reliance on ranges and benchmarks to monitor economic performance. There is also concern that the level of IMF lending is too low and the commercial banks, themselves under attack for tawdry loan levels to debtors, want to see it increased. The IMF, which holds its semi-annual meetings with the World Bank next week, will only be a small net lender this year. Much of its loan disbursements are offset by repayments. Meanwhile, most countries, including the United States, acknowledge the banks have not lived up to their commitments. Paul Volcker, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, is particularly irritated with the reluctance of commercial banks to lend more to reforming debtors, monetary sources say. New IMF managing director Michel Camdessus is understood to be worried about the Fund's image in the developing world, where it is often depicted as the source of economic ills. Camdessus' experience as former chairman of the so-called "Paris Club" of western creditor governments, has given him extensive first-hand experience of the debt crisis. Brazil, which in February declared an interest paymernts moratorium on 67 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt, has flatly ruled out adopting a program of IMF-sponsored economic reforms. Peru too has rejected an IMF program, curbing debt repayments to 10 pct of exports. But the administration official said Brazil's strategy of using a moratorium as a negotiating tool might backfire. "It's probably turning out to be more complicated than they thought. It underlines the extreme risk that a debtor country takes on itself when it begins down that road," the official said. Indeed, U.S. banks are laying the groundwork for writing down their Brazilian loans. U.S. officials have generally praised most debtors for adopting genuine economic reforms and the multilateral institutions for stepping up their lending. And they point out that Venezuela, Chile and the Philippines have struck agreement with commercial banks stretching out debt repayments. But problems still dog assembly of a 7.7 billion dlrs bank loan for Mexico, which many officials acknowledge may be the last major cash loan for a debtor country. Instead, banks are being pressed to come up with more novel ways of easing the liquidity squeeze in debtor nations. The prospect of greater official involvement in the debt strategy depends chiefly on the ability of western nations to come up with more finance. While there is sympathy in Congress for various forms of debt relief, more U.S. funds for the World Bank or the IMF are a virtual impossibility in today's era of budget restraint. That leaves rich surplus nations like Japan and West Germany, but neither country favors generalized debt relief. And the Reagan administration is not inclined to bow to Congressional pressure for changes in regulations governing foreign loans, to make it easier for banks to account for delays in interest and principal repayments. Reuter 
MORTON THIOKOL <TKI> UNIT TO MARKET RESINS

Morton Thiokol Inc said its Morton Chemical Division entered into an agreement with <Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Ltd>, Japan, to market extrudable adhesive resins based on Mitsubishi's Novatec AP product line technology. It said the resins are used in a broad range of applications, including barrier co-extrusion with nylon and Ethylene-Vinylalcohol Copolymer for film, sheet and bottles. Reuter 
EC PUBLISHES LIST OF U.S. BARRIERS TO FREE TRADE

The European Community responded to widespread U.S. criticism of its trade policies by publishing an extensive list of U.S. actions which pose obstacles to EC exports. A spokeswoman for the EC Commission said the detailed 25-page report of alleged malpractices was in response to a similar document issued by U.S. Administration officials in November, and updated a previous EC list. EC External Trade Relations Commissioner Willy De Clercq said its object was to show such actions were not solely taken by trading partners of the U.S. And that "the U.S. Were not innocents in the matter." The report covers the entire field of EC-U.S. Commercial relations and lists more than 30 obstacles ranging from tariff measures, import quotas, customs duties, anti-dumping procedures, fiscal barriers and export subsidies. The Commission said not all the barriers mentioned were necessarily inconsistent with U.S. International obligations, and emphasised many of them could be removed at upcoming international trade talks. "The purpose of the report is to make clear that trade practices which impede exports are not a unique problem only faced by U.S. Exporters. Europeans face similar problems in the U.S.," it said. Among the obstacles detailed in the report are import restrictions on food products, such as cheese, sugar and syrup, certain wines, beers and juices, as well as on firearms and machine tools. It also criticises programs to boost U.S. Cereals exports. The document said the U.S.'s three-year export enhancement program (EEP), which began in 1985, had subsidised exports of 9.7 mln tonnes of wheat, two mln tonnes of wheat flour and 2.8 mln tonnes of barley up to mid-March this year. The subsidies granted so far were worth about 620 mln dlrs, it added. "The Community has already reacted where necessary to U.S. EEP subsidies by increasing its exports refunds, and will continue to do so," it said, adding the current GATT round would also provide an opportunity to address the subject. The document also says import quotas maintained by the U.S. On a range of farm products, including sugar, peanuts and certain cottons, restrict EC exports. In addition, the report deplores a recent U.S.-Japan accord on semi-conductors, export controls on technology transfers, standards tests in the telecommunications arena and the U.S. Administration's "buy American" public procurement policy. Reuter 
SUN <SUN> RAISES HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE

Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketing Co subsidiary said it raised the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in ny harbor by 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today. The 0.50 cent price hike brings Sun's heating oil price to 50.75 cts a gallon, the company said. Reuter 
WORLD ENERGY OFFICIAL OPPOSES U.S OIL IMPORT FEE

Helga Steeg, executive director of the International Energy Agency, said a U.S. oil import fee would disrupt world markets and could prompt trade retaliation against the United States. She told the U.S. chapter of the World Energy Conference she believed "an oil import fee would be difficult to operate, would generate unacceptable economic costs and that it would gravely hamper and distort international trade in energy." Steeg also said it would violate the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) by imposing a discriminatory tariff, permitting retaliation by oil exporting countries. Steeg praised President Reagan's opposition to a tax, which would be aimed at helping the U.S. oil industry. Reuter 
UTILICORP <UCU> DIVISION CUTS GAS RATES

Utilicorp United said the Iowa Utilities Board has ordered its Peoples Natural Gas division to reduce its rates to customers by 313,937 dlrs. Utilicorp said it will request a reconsideration of the order within 20 days and the Board will have 20 days to act upon the request. The company said the reduction was the result of a rate request filed by Peoples in May 1986 for an 8.6 mln dlr increase. The Board granted Peoples an interim increase of 4.2 mln dlrs in August 1986, Utilicorp said. Reuter 
U.S. REGULATORS DOWNGRADE BRAZIL TO SUBSTANDARD

In a fresh sign of the strains caused by Brazil's suspension of interest payments on its medium-and long-term debt, U.S. bank regulators have lowered their rating of the country's creditworthiness to "substandard," bankers said. Brazil was previously ranked as an "other transfer risk problem." Reserves would have to be set aside for loans to Brazil only if its credit rating were lowered by another notch to "value impaired," but bankers said the regulators' decision should be read as a sign of official concern about the deterioration in Brazil's finances. The downgrading was decided by the Interagency Country Valuation Review Committee, which groups regulators from the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp and the Comptroller of the Currency. The downgrading coincides with the move by several major U.S. banks to place their loans to Brazil on non-accrual status because of the February 20 suspension of interest on 68 billion dlrs of term debt. By declaring the loans non-performing, the banks wipe out tens of millions of dollars of accrued, but uncollected, interest payments from their first-quarter accounts. Reuter 
LYNG DEFENDS U.S. MEAT INSPECTION SYSTEM

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, reacting to recent criticism of U.S. meat inspection, defended the program saying the United States has the best inspection system in the world. Speaking to representatives of the U.S. National Cattlemen's Association, NCA, Lyng attacked what he called recent "terribly biased" press reports critical of USDA poultry inspection. He cited a report on CBS "60 Minutes" which criticized USDA salmonella detection in poultry. "I know we have the finest meat and poultry inspection system in the world," Lyng told the cattlemen. Lyng said USDA makes every effort to minimize the levels of salmonella in poultry, but added "the total elimination of harmful bacteria is virtually impossible in this world." Reuter 
BETHLEHEM STEEL <BS> RAISES H-PILE PRICES

Bethlehem Steel Corp said effective with shipments of May 3 transaction prices for all H-piles will be increased by 30 dlrs per short ton. The company said a new base price, coupled with revised size extras, will result in a published price of 446 dlrs per ton HP14 and 420 dlrs for all other H-pile sizes. Reuter 
MICHIGAN NATIONAL <MNCO> RAISES PRIME

Michigan National Corp said it raised the prime rate for its subsidiary Michigan National Bank to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective yesterday. The move follows similar increases earlier in the week by other banks. Reuter 
SUNSHINE MINING CHIEF SEES SILVER AT 9.00 DLRS

Heightened concern over renewed inflation is feeding the rally in silver and the upward move could drive the inflation hedge metal this year to as much as 9.00 dlrs per troy ounce, Mike Boswell chairman of Sunshine Mining Co told Reuters in an interview. "The anticipated higher inflation is being manifested in silver rather than in gold which is the traditional choice of inflation hedgers," said Boswell. The strength could put silver in a range of "8.00 to 9.00 dlrs even without any material swings in supply/demand," Boswell said. The buying interest for silver on the New York Commodity Exchange (Comex) continued strong, with prices rising today to a September 1986 high of 6.465 dlrs per ounce. However gold lagged at 426.30 dlrs, the strongest price since late January this year. Boswell said silver has been "under-valued for so long relative to gold but it's closing up the price gap." He noted that silver last year held at the depressed level of 5.00 dlrs while gold was soaring to more than 400.00 dlrs on concern over the heated political unrest in South Africa. "The strength was not filtering down to silver last year. Now we're seeing a delayed reaction," the Sunshine Mining official said. Almost a year ago, U.S. producers shut down two of their largest silver properties, Sunshine and Hecla mining companies, both located in Idaho. Boswell estimated that the closings slashed U.S. silver production by 10 mln ounces last year to less than 40 mln ounces. "Low silver prices and high labor costs made it uneconomical to keep the mines opened," he said. Increased imports from Mexico and Peru have made up for the loss of production in the United States which consumes 160 to 170 mln ounces annually, Boswell said. Reuter 
FIRST INTERSTATE <I> RAISES PRIME RATE

The First Interstate Bank of California subsidiary of First Interstate Bancorp said it is raising its prime lending rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
BANK MONTREAL REASONABLY OPTIMISTIC ON BRAZIL

Bank of Montreal <BMO.M> Chairman William Mulholland said he was reasonably optimistic that debt negotiations between Brazil and its commercial bank creditors can be accomplished satisfactorily in the long run. "It's going to be a bit rocky short term ... a couple of months ... but I am reasonably optimistic longer term," he told a press briefing here. Earlier, Mulholland announced that Bank of Montreal has formally applied to swap up to 100 mln dlrs of its roughly one billion dlr cross border exposure to Brazil into local equity investments under a novel conversion scheme. Tensions have been running high between Brazil and its bank creditors since President Jose Sarney imposed a unilateral suspension of interest payments on some 68 billion dlrs of commercial bank debt on February 20, bankers said. Only yesterday, three leading U.S. banks voluntarily put their Brazilian loans on non-accrual status and took a hefty cut in net income for the first quarter ended March 31. Bankers saw this as a clear refusal to be intimidated into granting major concessions as forthcoming refinancing talks. Bank of Montreal's Mulholland regretted Brazil's action but declined to discuss what action his bank might take. Mulholland merely said that Bank of Montreal had not canceled any of its short-term credit lines that came up for renewal on March 31. However, John Bradlow, senior vice president of the corporate and goverment banking division, said that it was possible that Bank of Montreal might follow the U.S. banks' lead in its second quarter results accounting. "A decision will be made at April 30 or in the first weeks of May," he told reporters after the briefing. Unlike most major U.S. banks, whose reporting year ends on December 31, Canadian banks operate on a November through October basis. At the press briefing, Mulholland detailed the proposed debt/equity conversion scheme, which is aimed at boosting investment capital and conserving foreign exchange reserves. Unlike many existing programs, Bank of Montreal intends to sell its own dollar-denominated debt at par to either the obligor or local investors for cruzados, which would then be ploughed into Brazilian assets. Mulholland said current debt/equity schemes, in which bank debt is often sold to foreign third parties at a discount, were like "peddling off debt at fire sale prices". He added that they could do pyschological harm to investor confidence. While acknowledging that Brazil has yet to give its official blessing to the plan, Mulholland predicted, "if it is supported, we are going to see more of this." Sources at other large banks with sizeable exposure to Brazil were not so sure about the scheme's success. "I don't think it's going to fly because of the impact it would have on money supply and other political reasons," said one banker, noting that earlier informal proposals along the same lines received "fairly neutral responses." "And is there a market for such investment in a time of great uncertainty," he added. Mulholland admitted, "it is something of an experiment.... some one has to screw up the courage and do something." "It is very important that avenues (to reversing net capital outflows) are broadened," he added, noting that in recent years the options have in fact been narrowing. Another senior banker agreed that debt/equity swap proposals, such as Bank of Montreal's, should be explored and developed but warned that Brasilia has been "very ambivalent" about debt/equity schemes thus far. The banker added, "debt/equity conversion should happen but it is not a major instrument for solving debt problems." Reuter 
AMEX LISTS PORTAGE INDUSTRIES <PTG>

The American Stock Exchange said it has listed the common shares of Portage Industres Corp, which went public today. Reuter 
NYMEX SCHEDULES START OF HEATING OIL OPTIONS

The New York Mercantile Exchange said options on heating oil futures will begin trading June 26. This would be the second options contract to trade at the exchange. NYMEX introduced crude oil options last November. "Heating oil options are a logical complement to our existing energy complex," said NYMEX Chairman William Bradt. "From our experience in crude, we fully expect heating oil options to offer significant new trading opportunities to current market participants and also draw additional users into this marketplace," he said. Six consecutive trading months in heating oil options will be introduced on June 26, led by the September 1987 contract, according to the exchange. Strike prices wil be in increments of two cts per gallon and seven strike prices for puts and for calls will be available, the exchange said. The middle strike price will correspond closely to the settlement price of the previous day's futures close, it said. Expiration will be on the second Friday of the month preceding delivery of the underlying futures contract, it said, meaning that the September options contract would expire August 14. Prices for heating oil options will be quoted in cts per gallon with a minimum fluctuation of 0.01 cent per gallon, NYMEX said. The options will be based on the underlying futures contract of 42,000 gallons each. Trading hours will be the same as heating oil futures, beginning at 0950 EST and ending 1505 EST. NYMEX received approval for heating oil options from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on September 16, 1986, the exchange said. Reuter 
ARK RESTAURANTS <RK> BEGINS TRADING ON AMEX

Ark Restaurants Corp's 3,333,333 shares of common stock began trading today on the American Stock Exchange, the exchange said. The common opened on 100 shares at 4-3/8, the exchange said. The company, which is a holding company for 12 restaurants in New York City and New Jersey, formerly traded on NASDAQ, the exchange said. Reuter 
DOLE SAYS REAGAN CHANGED NO MINDS ON VETO

Senate Republican leader Robert Dole said President Reagan changed no minds in a meeting with Republican senators to seek support for his veto of an 88 billion dlr highway bill. "I think it's safe to say no minds were changed," Dole said before the Senate began a final vote on the veto. Reuter 
AMOCO <AN> SEES 1ST QTR NET TOPPING 4TH QTR

Amoco Corp first quarter profits are expected to exceed the 165 mln dlrs, or 65 cts per share, reported for 1986's fourth quarter, chairman Richard Morrow said. Speaking to reporters after a security analyst meeting, he said the gain was expected because of higher oil and gas prices, but declined to compare his expectations with the 331 mln dlrs, or 1.28 dlrs per share, the company earned in 1986's first quarter. Earlier, Morrow told the analysts that Amoco's first quarter refining and marketing results "will look pretty poor," because of low margins in January and February. The margins began to improve last month and look pretty good now, he added. Morrow said he expects oil product margins to remain good for the rest of the year, "but it remains to be seen if they will match 1986 levels." The Amoco chairman said he expects crude oil prices to remain in the 17 to 20 dlr barrel range for the rest of 1988 based on his belief that OPEC's agreement will hold. Morrow said his best estimate for 1989 crude oil prices is 21 dlrs per barrel, adding he believes this price level would result in a 40 pct increase in oil company exploration spending. President H. Lawrance Fuller told the analysts Amoco reduced its estimates of worldwide oil and gas reserves by a total of 201 mln equivalent barrels last year because of a drop in oil and gas prices. Noting the Securities and Exchange Commission requires that reserves be estimated on the assumption that year-end prices will remain fixed for the life of the properties, he said the drop in oil prices to 16 dlrs a barrel at the end of 1986 from 27 dlrs a year earlier forced the company to reduce its reserve estimate by four pct. Fuller said Amoco expects its U.S. oil and natural gas liquids production to decline about five pct this year from last year's 121 mln barrels because of drilling deferrals made last year when oil prices were falling. He said the full impact of the deferrals was off-set by the purchase of properties which will add about 5,000 barrels per day to the company's 1987 U.S. production. Fuller said U.S. refining capacity is expected to be increasingly strained by the rising demand for lead-free gasoline, especially the higher octane grades. He said expected federal regulations on gasoline vapor pressure will further tighten the industry's gasoline production capacity. Reuter 
U.S SENATE OVERRIDES REAGAN'S HIGHWAY BILL VETO

The Senate overrode President Reagan's veto of an 88 billion dlr highway funding bill, 67-33. The measure now becomes law. It was a major personal loss for Reagan, who came to the Capitol earlier in the day to campaign for support. Reuter 
SUN <SUN> IN NORTH DAKOTA OIL FIND

Sun Co Inc said the O.M. Steel Federal Number One well in Williams County, N.D., flowed 660 barrels of oil and 581,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day through a 13/64 inch choke from depths of 13,188 to 13,204 feet. Sun said it has a 50 pct interest and Comdisco Resources Inc the remainder. An offset well is under consideration, it said. Reuter 
MERIDIAN BANCORP <MRDN> RAISES PRIME RATE

Meridian Bancorp Inc said it has raised its prime rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Reuter 
U.S. SUGAR PRODUCT AMENDMENT UNLIKELY TO SURVIVE

An amendment approved by the House Agriculture Committee yesterday requiring quotas on U.S. imports of products containing sugar is unlikely to remain in a comprehensive trade bill, Congressional sources said. The amendment, offered by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., would require quotas on the import of any merchandise containing over 25 pct sugar or other farm products which are now subject to U.S. quotas. Supporters of the amendment said it is aimed at curbing shipments of food products containing sugar from Canada. However, the Ways and Means committee, which has overall jurisdiction on trade legislation, will try to kill the amendment as protectionist, a committee aide said. An Agriculture committee aide acknowledged the proposal probably will not survive scrutiny by other House committees. But he said the amendment was introduced in part to send a warning to U.S. companies considering moving food processing plants to Canada to avoid the restrictive U.S. sugar quota. In debate on the amendment yesterday, Rep. Stangeland and other supporters said the proposal would have no effect on the status of foreign trade zones. Sugar producer groups pushed for the amendment on sugar-containing products because they believe sugar is being shipped to the United States in food products as a way to circumvent the quota on raw sugar. The sugar quota is only one mln short tons this year. Reuter 
EPA TO SHIELD WATER SUPPLY FROM GASOLINE LEAKS

The Environmental Protection Agency proposed rules to shield water supplies from potential leaks from 1.4 mln underground storage tanks, nearly half of which are used to store gasoline at service stations. It said the rules would require owners and operators of the tanks containing petroleum products or certain hazardous chemicals to monitor the tanks for leaks and, in case of leaks, to notify appropriate authorities. The owners and operators of petroleum tanks would also be financially responsible for any contamination, the EPA said. It said financial requirements for chemical tanks will be proposed later. Hazardous tanks are regulated separately. EPA Administrator Lee Thomas said "Thousands of underground storage tanks are currently leaking and, without adequate controls, many more can be expected to leak in the future, endangering our nation's drinking-water supplies." He added in a statement "We intend to ensure that each underground tank is either upgraded or closed down and that safe operating and cleanup procedures are following to provide maximum protection from any future leaks." reuter 
WHITE HOUSE DISAVOWS YEUTTER COMMENTS ON DOLLAR

White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said that comments made in congressional testimony by Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter do not reflect the government's position. Yeutter was questioned about the dollar during testimony to the Senate Finance Committee. Fitzwater said in a statement Yeutter's comments were in response to a hypothetical question "and do not reflect the government's position." "I want to emphasize that only the president and the secretray of the treasury are authorized to comment on the dollar," the spokesman said. Yeutter, asked whether the U.S. trade deficit would improve more if the value of the dollar dropped further, replied, "That should be a mathematical truism." But he added that markets are more complicated than that. He said he expected the current decline in the dollar to show up soon in the decline in the value of imports. Reuter 
USSR ADDS CORN TO PURCHASES -- USDA

The Soviet Union has added 50,000 tonnes to its previous purchases of U.S. corn purchases, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its Export Sales Report covering transactions in the week ended March 26, the department said changes in destinations of 250,000 tonnes of corn to the Soviet Union were reported. However, 200,000 tonnes of the transaction was reported under the daily reporting system. Total corn commitments for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grain Supply Agreement amount to 2,650,000 tonnes. Reuter 
LITTLE SCOPE FOR U.S. RATE RISE - FANNIE MAE<FNM>

There is little scope for a substantial increase in U.S. interest rates during 1987, said Federal National Mortgage Association chairman David Maxwell. Speaking to the New York Financial Writers' Association, Maxwell said he viewed this week's rise in U.S. banks' prime rates to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct as a temporary phenomenon. "I don't see a substantial rise in rates this year. If anything, the Federal Reserve is more likely to ease than to tighten (monetary policy) because so many sectors of the economy are showing weakness," Maxwell said. Fannie Mae buys mortgages from lenders and issues mortgage-backed securities. Maxwell said restructuring of Fannie Mae over the last two years had limited its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. A one pct rise in rates in 1987 would cost shareholders about 18 cts a share versus one dlr a share in 1981, he said. Maxwell also questioned the view that housing crowds out other sectors of the economy from obtaining needed capital. "There's no evidence that housing is crowding firms out of the long-term debt market," he said. Both home mortgage debt and long-term corporate debt grew at about equal annual rates of about 13 pct in 1986 -- a year when mortgage originations of 442 billion dlrs needed record housing capital, he said. Reuter 
GOURMET COFFEE MAKES U.S. SUPERMARKET DEBUT

Shoppers who buy Haagen-Daas ice cream, Dijon mustard or Tuborg beer on their weekly trip to the supermarket are soon to be the target of a promotional blitz for national-brand "gourmet" coffees. General Foods, the largest U.S. coffee roaster, and A and P, which shares the third place in the U.S. market, are the only two national brand roasters so far to introduce the higher-quality coffees into selected supermarkets. But industry insiders believe there is substantial growth potential in upscale coffee, despite years of flat sales in regular ground roast types. "I would suspect General Foods will make a name for themselves with their gourmet line," said a coffee trade source. "What it could do is really dent the small-store, whole-bean business," the trade source added. The new lines are designed to appeal to a classic advertising composite--the "yuppie" consumer. They buy fresh pasta, subscribe to Bon Appetit magazine and were "first on their block with a wok," as described by Karin Brown, General Foods senior product manager for its new coffee, called Private Collection out of GF's Maxwell House division. Paul Gallant, president of A and P's Compass Foods subsidiary that makes the new A and P gourmet line, described its potential appeal as "a status thing." At an initial price of 4.99 dlrs for 12 ounces it is expensive, though not more so than high quality coffee sold in small specialty stores. General Foods' Maxwell House Div. has just cut the price on its new offering by 50 cents to 4.49 dlrs for 12 ounces--a move competitor A and P is bound to imitate, according to an A and P executive. Number two U.S. roaster Folgers has "nothing to announce at this point" in the gourmet line, a spokesman said. Neither does Hills Bros., a subsidiary of Nestle that shares the third and fourth size market spot by volume with A and P. Competitors believe Folgers will watch the progress of General Foods' offering, prepared to jump in if the market takes off. General Foods and A and P hope their new products will help push coffee sales out of the doldrums. Coffee consumption in the United States has fallen 44 pct since 1962, according to a 1986 study by the International Coffee Organization. Sales show no signs of picking up. Compass's Gallant blames the falloff on declines in coffee quality since the 1960's and aggressive soft drink marketing. "The national brands began to cheapen the blend in the name of profit but spent 100 mln dlrs a year telling consumers this was quality coffee," Gallant said. As a result, first time consumers never got a taste for the brew. The first time a young consumer tries coffee, "they turn around and say 'My God this is awful, I think I'll have a Coke'," he said. Having now mostly written off the 16-25 age group, who have confirmed their loyalty to soft drinks, coffee marketers are aiming at the high income, free-spending, self-treating crowd -- the yuppie composite. "Where else are you going to go?," an industry source said. "Kids aren't going to drink coffee, that's apparent. There are no other markets. The only area that's not been promoted is gourmet," he said. In addition to perking up sales, success in the gourmet line could provide much higher margins to roasters than regular ground roast coffees produce. Generally, retail prices are about twice the price of green, unroasted coffee beans, taking into account the costs of roasting, packaging and distribution, and then deducting often-generous trade discounts. Supermarkets tend to sell coffee near the trade price as a "loss leader," a product designed to draw shoppers into the store. But with the new gourmet lines, a different pricing structure prevails, industry sources said. There is no trade discounting and an emphasis on expensive packaging, including a special valve designed to keep the beans fresher. Dealers said roasters were buying the higher quality green beans at about 1.60 dlrs a lb. Thus, retail prices on gourmet coffee are now almost three times the price of green. Targetted consumers seem willing to pay the difference. General Foods claims 80 pct of consumers in their test market surveys for Private Collection came back for more. And product manager Brown points to the success of more expensive beers, mustard and ice cream, that began selling in restricted high income areas and are now available in almost every supermarket in the country. A and P is similarly optimistic. "We think we'll do extremely well in the gourmet market," Gallant said. Maxwell House is marketing its eight types of Private Collection in selected high income areas, while A and P offers its 14 different whole bean gourmet coffees, called 8 O'Clock Royale, only in their own stores in Philadelphia, Baltimore, New York, Atlanta and some other metropolitan areas. Reuter 
ASSETS OF U.S. MONEY FUNDS FELL IN WEEK

Assets of money market mutual funds decreased 833 mln dlrs in the week ended yesterday to 235.40 billion dlrs, the Investment Company Institute said. Assets of 197 general purpose funds rose 1.10 billion dlrs to 63.21 billion dlrs, 92 broker-dealer funds fell 1.59 billion dlrs to 107.02 billion dlrs and 91 institutional funds fell 341 mln dlrs to 65.17 billion dlrs. Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON APRIL 1

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on April 1 to 4.602 billion dlrs from 3.576 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts rose to 6.495 billion dlrs from 5.394 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 11.097 billion dlrs on April 1 compared with 8.969 billion dlrs on March 31. Reuter 
PHILLIPS <P> EXTENDS AVIATION FUEL, LUBE MARKETS

Phillips Petroleum Co said its Phillips 66 Co subsidiary is expanding its aviation fuel and lubricants marketing activities into Southern California. The company said it bagan selling aviation products on the West Coast today at Combs Gates Palm Springs, which serves most of Southern California. Reuter 
NYMEX SURVEILLANCE ADEQUATE, CFTC SAYS

The New York Mercantile Exchange, NYMEX, has adequate trade practice surveillance and disciplinary programs, but could take steps to improve them, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, said. In a rule enforcement review, CFTC said NYMEX was able to identify possible "violative market activity" and that investigations were generally thorough. However, the commission faulted the exchange for limiting access to its computer-assisted trade practice surveillance system and recommended NYMEX enhance its computerized surveillance system. CFTC also found NYMEX had an adequate disciplinary program, but noted that the disciplinary process sometimes was delayed because of failure to promptly schedule hearings. Reuter 
U.S. ACREAGE CUTS SEEN LIMITING STOCK BUILD

Sharp cuts this year in U.S. planted acreage may not make a big dent in the U.S. grain stockpile but will at least keep grain surpluses from increasing, Agriculture Department and industry commodity analysts said. "The scenario is turning around on stocks. The whole supply/demand picture could finally be getting more in balance," a USDA analyst said. The USDA prospective plantings report this week indicated that U.S. farmers will idle 52 to 55 mln acres in annual acreage reduction programs this year. An additional 20 mln acres have been enrolled in the conservation reserve program, bringing total idled acreage in the U.S. to 72-75 mln acres, almost a third of the nation's total 235 mln acre crop base. Production of wheat, corn and soybeans in 1986/87 will probably closely match annual usage, limiting any buildup in stocks, analysts said. "It's a substantially different story from last year when we added 1.5 billion bushels of corn to the stockpile," Vernon McMinimy, director of commodity research for Staley Co. said. Interviewed at an agribusiness education conference here, McMinimy said that 67.6 mln planted acres of corn will likely translate into 60 mln harvested acres, and with normal yields, final production of 6.9 to 7.0 billion bushels. McMinimy estimated that total U.S. corn disappearance in 1986/87 could end up at 7.1 billion bushels, possibly resulting in a 200-million bushel reduction in the current corn stockpile of 5.45 billion bushels. "To say this represents a turn-around is wrong, but we're at least in a holding pattern," George Hoffman, director of commodity analysis for Pillsbury said. Hoffman said wheat stocks could rise slightly by the end of 1986/87 to 1.9 billion bushels due to "significantly less" domestic feed use for wheat because of lower corn prices. USDA analysts, however, project slightly higher usage and said wheat stocks will either decrease slightly or at least not increase. With yearly use at around two billion bushels, next year's projected crop could be used up, an analyst said. "We won't be adding to stocks. Stocks are at a record now, so if we can begin to touch them even minutely through acreage reductions, that would be an improvement," an Agriculture Department wheat analyst said. Soybean planted acreage, at 56.9 mln acres, would be the smallest planted soybean acreage since 1976 and could lower final production by 150 mln bushels and ending stocks by 50 to 100 mln bushels, analysts said. As more marginal, erodable acreage is enrolled in the conservation reserve program, annual acreage reduction programs will be more effective because they will force more high producing land out of production, a USDA analyst said. "We can now maybe see the light at the end of a very long tunnel," the analyst said. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA

There were 106,200 tonnes of U.S. corn shipped to the Soviet Union in the week ended March 26, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department's latest Export Sales report. There were no wheat or soybean shipments during the week. The USSR has purchased 2.65 mln tonnes of U.S. corn, as of March 26, for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement. Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. Reuter 
PIK-AND-ROLL PRESSURES CORN BASIS VALUES

Changes by the USDA in its posted county prices have successfully increased PIK-and-roll activity as a way to pull corn out of government stockpiles, with the resulting jump in free supplies pressuring terminal corn basis values, cash grain dealers said. Processors dropped spot Chicago corn basis bids three cents after covering most of the April needs this week, with river corn basis bids following CIF Gulf corn values lower. The surge in PIK-and-roll also pressured corn futures, with May settling today down three cents per bushel at 1.58-1/2 dlrs, near the contract low of 1.49-1/4 dlrs. But unlike in the past when lower prices slowed country movement, now lower county prices widen the differentials with the corn loan and make PIK-and-roll even more attractive, they noted. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY RISES ONE BILLION DLRS

U.S. M-1 money supply rose 1.0 billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 741.0 billion dlrs in the March 23 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 740.0 billion dlrs from 740.2 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rise to 739.7 billion dlrs from 739.1 billion. Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 would be anywhere from down 2.1 billion dlrs to up two billion dlrs. The average forecast called for an 800 mln dlr increase. Reuter 
U.S. ACREAGE CUTS SEEN LIMITING STOCK BUILD

Sharp cuts this year in U.S. planted acreage may not make a big dent in the U.S. grain stockpile but will at least keep grain surpluses from increasing, Agriculture Department and industry commodity analysts said. "The scenario is turning around on stocks. The whole supply/demand picture could finally be getting more in balance," a USDA analyst said. The USDA prospective plantings report this week indicated that U.S. farmers will idle 52-55 mln acres in annual acreage reduction programs this year. An additional 20 mln acres have been enrolled in the conservation reserve program, bringing total idled acreage in the U.S. to 72-75 mln acres, almost a third of the nation's total 235 mln acre crop base. Production of wheat, corn and soybeans in 1986/87 will probably closely match annual usage, limiting any buildup in stocks, analysts said. "It's a substantially different story from last year when we added 1.5 billion bushels of corn to the stockpile," Vernon McMinimy, director of commodity research for Staley Co. said. Interviewed at an agribusiness education conference here, McMinimy said that 67.6 mln planted acres of corn will likely translate into 60 mln harvested acres, and with normal yields, final production of 6.9 to 7.0 billion bushels. McMinimy estimated that total U.S. corn disappearance in 1986/87 could end up at 7.1 billion bushels, possibly resulting in a 200-million bushel reduction in the current corn stockpile of 5.45 billion bushels. "To say this represents a turn-around is wrong, but we're at least in a holding pattern," George Hoffman, director of commodity analysis for Pillsbury said. Hoffman said wheat stocks could rise slightly by the end of 1986/87 to 1.9 billion bushels due to "significantly less" domestic feed use for wheat because of lower corn prices. USDA analysts, however, project slightly higher usage and said wheat stocks will either decrease slightly or at least not increase. With yearly use at around two billion bushels, next year's projected crop could be used up, an analyst said. "We won't be adding to stocks. Stocks are at a record now, so if we can begin to touch them even minutely through acreage reductions, that would be an improvement," an Agriculture Department wheat analyst said. Reuter 
JORDAN TENDERING FOR U.S. WHEAT - EXPORTERS

Jordan will tender Monday for 225,000 tonnes of U.S. hard and soft wheat under the USDA's Export Bonus program for April through November shipment, private export sources said. Reuter 
THAI AIRWAYS BUYS TWO MCDONNELL <MD> DC-10S

Thai Airways International Ltd said it purchased two McDonnell Douglas Corp's DC-10 extended range wide-body jets for over 125 mln dlrs. The jets will be delivered at year end. Thai Airways said the jets will operate flights between Thailand, northern Europe and New Zealand. Reuter 
REAGAN'S STRENGTH IN U.S. CONGRESS APPEARS SAPPED

President Reagan's reduced strength in Congress has been demonstrated by the U.S. Senate's decision to approve a highway spending bill despite his attempts to veto it, political analysts said. "He's very weakened," said William Schneider of the private American Enterprise public policy group after the Senate voted 67-33 yesterday to ignore Reagan's veto of the road bill. Schneider contrasted Reagan's failure with his previous ability to win clear majorities on major issues. Sustaining his veto required him to win just one-third of the votes in either house of Congress. It was the third consecutive fight over a presidential veto on which Congress had defied Reagan, whose clout with the legislature has been greatly diminished by the arms-for-Iran scandal and the capture of a majority in the Senate by the opposition Democratic party in the November 1986 election. Congress overrode Reagan's veto of a popular water projects bill in January and last autumn Congress rejected his veto of economic sanctions against South Africa. But this time the president laid his full authority on the line, even making a rare journey to Capitol Hill to plead for support in person. With both the House and Senate in Democratic hands, analysts say Reagan is swiftly becoming a lame duck, facing difficulties in enacting his own legislative agenda, especially given the furore over the Iran arms deal. The situation contrasts with Reagan's first six years in office when a Republican-controlled Senate and the backing of conservative Democrats in the House enabled Reagan to win passage of most of his legislative priorities. Reagan's ability to veto legislation he dislikes had been his strongest weapon in dealing with Congress, but his defeat on the highway bill was expected to reduce the credibility of his veto power. Senator John Chafee, a Rhode Island Republican, told the New York Times earlier this week that if Reagan lost "there will be no brake on -- if you suggest a presidential veto you will be laughed away." Yesterday's defeat came two days after the House of Representatives' overwhelming rejection of a presidential veto on the highways bill by 350 votes to 73. White House strategists had presented the veto fight as a test of Reagan's strength as he attempted to recover from the scandal over secret arms sales to Iran. Senate Republican leader Robert Dole of Kansas pleaded with fellow party members to back Reagan because "this may determine the strength of the presidency for the next 21 months." The defeat showed the problems facing any president in his final years in office. Reagan's term expires in January 1989. A majority of Republicans in the House of Representatives and 13 in the Senate apparently decided their own political concerns have become more important than the president's. "President Reagan, he ain't going to be running in 1988, but I am," Congressman Arthur Ravenel, a South Carolina Republican, said on Tuesday of his decision to back a bill that means money and jobs for his home district in new highway construction. The defeat interrupted a good streak for Reagan, who won applause for his selection in February of former Senate majority leader Howard Baker to replace Donald Regan as White House chief of staff, and was believed by most political analysts to have benefitted from a televised speech and a news conference on the Iran affair last month. A steady drop in Reagan's job approval ratings appeared to level off in recent weeks. The president slumped from about 65 pct last autumn to about 42 pct after the Tower Commission report in February said he had failed to exercise proper control over the dealings with Iran. His approval rating hovers at 50 pct. Reagan said he was deeply disappointed by the Senate defeat but "my efforts to control spending are not diminished." Democratic leader Robert Byrd said "this isn't going to make or break the president." REUTER 
STOLTENBERG SAYS PARIS ACCORD POLICY TO CONTINUE

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the currency agreement reached in Paris in February had been successful and would be continued. Stoltenberg told journalists before he attends next week's International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington that: "The ... Strategy to stabilise currencies around current levels has proven its worth and will also determine future developments." Stoltenberg declined to comment specifically on what he would consider to be an undervalued dollar but said a dollar around 1.80 marks created problems for West Germany's exports. Stoltenberg said studies by international organisations had made it clear that especially in the U.S. And in Japan major efforts remained necessary to support adjustments in foreign trade balances via necessary corrections to economic policy. "No-one would benefit if, after years of over-valuation, the U.S. Dollar fell into the other extreme, that is, strong under-valuation," he said. Stoltenberg said West Germany had a keen interest in a swift agreement between the U.S. And Japan concerning the current trade dispute over semi-conductors. Asked whether he believed the markets would test the Paris currency accord, Stoltenberg did not comment specifically but noted that much of what had been discussed in Paris had not been published. The Paris declaration did not state the levels at which central banks of the major industrialised countries would intervene. Stoltenberg said that everything had been carefully considered. He said he had nothing further to add. Stoltenberg also appeared to suggest that West Germany was now no longer under any pressure from the U.S. Government to stimulate its economy. He declined to respond specifically to a question on this subject but said, "You must attach particular importance to the consensus which was reached in Paris." The minister nevertheless added that he would make clear during his trip to Washington that West Germany's nominal trade figures gave a false impression about actual trade flows. Stoltenberg noted that in 1986 Bonn's exports fell by a nominal two pct while its nominal imports fell by 10.7 pct. West Germany's imports dropped largely because of foreign currency developments and the cheaper price of oil and led to a record trade surplus last year. However, Stoltenberg said that in real terms West Germany's exports by volume had increased by 1.5 pct while real imports had risen by a much stronger 6.2 pct. In this way West Germany had made its contribution to economic stability, Stoltenberg added. Stoltenberg noted the government expected imports to rise by a real four to five pct in 1987 with exports stagnating. He said it was too early to revise official forecasts for West Germany's economic growth this year. The government has forecast an unchanged 2.5 pct rise in Gross National Product. The Kiel Institute, a leading research body, is still expecting growth of three pct but some other research institutes have revised forecasts down to below two pct. Stoltenberg said the wide range of predictions showed how many imponderables had to be taken into account and said no drastic changes in official forecasts were needed. REUTER 
MOSCOW STAGES NUCLEAR TEST

The Soviet Union conducted an underground nuclear test aimed at perfecting military techology, the official news agency Tass reported. Tass said the test was carried out at 0120 gmt at the Semipalatinsk testing ground in Kazakhstan, Soviet Central Asia. It was the third Soviet underground blast since Moscow halted an 18-month nuclear test moratorium last February, saying Washington's refusal to join the ban had forced it to resume testing. Moscow began its unilateral nuclear test moratorium in August 1985, calling on the United States to agree to a total ban on testing as the first step to nuclear disarmament. Last December it announced that it would end the freeze after the first U.S. Test this year. Washington had continued testing, saying the blasts were necessary to maintain its nuclear deterrent and that problems remained concerning the monitoring of a test freeze. The United States staged one test on February 3 and another on February 11. Moscow responded with a blast on February 26 and a second on March 12. Soviet officials and the state media blamed the resumption of testing on the U.S. Decision not to join the freeze. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY POLICIES SAID UNCHANGED BY DEPARTURE

The departure of James Baker's closest aide, Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman, will not change the course of Washington's domestic and international economic policies, U.S. officials said. Darman, who has worked alongside Baker for six years, was widely credited with helping him mastermind initiatives on currency management and international economic cooperation. U.S. Officials said Darman also played a key role in shepherding President Reagan's sweeping tax reform plan through the U.S. Congress. But they flatly dismissed suggestions that his departure, to the investment banking firm of Shearson Lehman Brothers, signaled the Baker team was breaking up, or that the Treasury Secretary himself might leave soon. "It really does not mean that, he took the opportunity as it came up," one official said. Another commented, "Baker will miss him, but he's not going to stand in his way." There has been widespread speculation since last autumn that Darman sought a Wall Street job. Officials said Darman felt the passage of tax reform late last year marked an appropriate moment to bow out. Baker acknowledged Darman would be sorely missed. "Dick Darman has contributed mightily to the success of this administration over the past six years and his departure represents a substantial loss," he said. U.S. Officials admitted Darman's absence would be an undoubted blow to Baker, who has relied on him for policy advice, both at the White House and, in Reagan's second term, at the Treasury. One aide once described Darman as "indispensable" to Baker. Baker is widely thought to want a more stable currency system and Darman is generally credited by officials of other nations as Baker's leading theorist on this issue, favouring target zones to limit currency fluctuations. Earlier this year, monetary sources said the U.S. Treasury unsuccessfully sounded out allies on a target zone system. But a U.S. Official disputed the assessment that, with Darman gone, Baker would abandon international initiatives. Baker's work as head of Reagan's Economic Policy Council, spearheading trade policy, and his skills in negotiating with the Democrat-controlled Congress will go on as before. Darman's strength was not as an economist, but as a political strategist "and that's Baker's strength too," the official said. There were already indications that Baker, who throughout his time in government has relied on a closely-knit circle of advisers, has moved swiftly to find a successor. One possibility is that Baker might turn to George Gould, who holds the number three Treasury position of Under-Secretary. Gould, another close confidante, has known Baker for years. Before joining the Treasury in November 1985, Gould was a partner at the Wall Steet firm of Wertheim and Co and formerly headed Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp. The Darman announcement came on the eve of the semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, where many policies Darman helped shape will be debated. He helped Baker devise the September, 1985 Plaza Agreement, when the United States, Japan, West Germany, France and Britain curbed the dollar's strength. The pact was a major turning point in U.S. Policy, ending a period of disdain for economic cooperation and intervention in currency markets. Darman also worked on some other Baker initiatives, like the Tokyo Summit agreement to intensify coordination of economic policies among the leading industrial countries and the recent Paris Agreement to stabilise currencies and stimulate global growth. These policies are collectively aimed at redressing the huge gap between Japan and West Germany's trade surpluses and the United State's massive trade deficit. That policy goal still remains a prime objective of the Reagan Administration and will not change with Darman's departure. REUTER 
U.S. MARCH JOBLESS RATE FELL TO 6.6 PCT

The U.S. civilian unemployment rate fell to 6.6 pct in March from 6.7 pct in February, the Labor Department said. The number of non-farm payroll jobs rose 164,000 last month after rising a revised 236,000 in February. That was down from the previously reported 337,000 rise in February. The March unemployment rate was the lowest since March, 1980. It had remained unchanged at 6.7 pct for three straight months before the March decline. The rise in non-farm payrolls was the smallest since a decline last June of 75,000, the department said. Last month's unemployment rate was down from the 7.2 pct level in March, 1986. Growth in jobs continued in March but was slower than in recent months, with the gains concentrated in service industries. The number of goods-producing jobs fell 68,000 in March, while service-producing jobs rose 232,000 to bring the total jobs in the department's survey of businesses to 102.03 mln in March. Business and health services showed the largest gains in jobs, while manufacturing employment fell by 25,000. The average work week fell to 34.8 hours in March from 35.0 hours in February, the department said. Manufacturing hours fell to 40.9 per week from 41.2 hours in February, but overtime hours increased to 3.7 from 3.6. The department's survey of households showed the number of unemployed stood at 7.85 mln out of a work force of 119.2 mln. The number of persons working part time for economic reasons fell in March to 5.46 mln from 5.78 mln in February. The loss of factory jobs brought the March total to 19.19 mln jobs and was concentrated in automobile, electrical and electronic manufacturing. Construction employment also lowered the number of jobs in the goods-producing sector, falling by 45,000 after seasonal adjustment, the department said. Mining employment was little changed in March and has not experienced any substantial erosion since the rapid job losses in oil and gas drilling in the first two-thirds of 1986. Other service industries that increased jobs last month were finance, insurance, and real estate. Reuter 
SURALCO OFFERS CASH FOR WORKERS TO LEAVE

The U.S.-owned <Surinam Aluminum Company> (SURALCO) offered workers a lump sum and up to five months' wages to quit the firm because jungle-based rebels have disrupted bauxite mining and alumina smelting, ANP said. The Dutch news agency said SURALCO, a subsidiary of the Aluminum Company of America(ALCOA) wanted to reduce its work force because it had been hard hit by guerrilla attacks that cut power lines to the area in January. All bauxite mining at Moengo ceased four months ago and SURALCO's Paranam alumina smelter is using imported bauxite. Reuter 
NERCO <NER> TO ACQUIRE INTEREST IN GAS FILED

Nerco Inc said it has agreed to acquire a 47 pct working interest in the Broussard Gas Field in southern Louisiana from privately-owned <Davis Oil Co> for about 22.5 mln dlrs in cash. Nerco said the interest being purchased will give it estimated proven oil and gas reserves equal to six billion cubic feet of natural gas. The property includes six gas wells, one oil well two undeveloped drilling locations, a central production facility and a gas gathering system. Nerco is 90 pct owned by PacifiCorp <PPW>. Reuter 
STOLTENBERG SEES NO "ITALIAN PROBLEM" AT G-7

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said he foresaw no problem about Italian participation in talks held by Group of Seven (G-7) Finance Ministers and central bankers ahead of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting next week. Italy refused to join a G-7 meeting in Paris in February, angered at not being invited to a prior working dinner of the G-5 countries - U.S., U.K., West Germany, France and Japan. Stoltenberg told a news conference he saw no difficulties about Italy joining the G-7 Washington talks, which he said would be preceded by other informal and bilateral talks. REUTER 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-273 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-89 days 274-294 days 5.92 pct 5.83 pct 90-100 days 295-344 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 101-181 days 345-360 days 5.93 pct 5.82 pct 182-195 days 5.00 pct 196-274 days 5.90 pct 275-295 days 5.00 pct 296-360 days Reuter 



SALLIE MAE ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Student Loan Marketing Association said its rates on short-term discount notes were as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 5-14 days 5.65 pct 5.60 pct 5-14 days 15-78 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 15-81 days 79-85 days 5.83 pct 5.75 pct 82-88 days 89-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 89-174 days 5.85 pct 175-180 days 5.00 pct 181-360 days Reuter 
CYPRUS LOWERS COPPER PRICE ONE CT TO 66 CTS

Cyprus Minerals Company said it is decreasing its electrolytic copper cathode price by one cent to 66.0 cents a pound, effective immediately. Reuter 
FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES

The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 31 days 5.95 pct 6.00 pct 32 days Reuter 
MISSED SENATE DEADLINE UPSETS U.S. BUDGET CHIEF

White House Budget Chief James Miller said he was irritated by the Senate Budget Committee's failure to meet an April 1 deadline for completing action on its budget blueprint for the coming fiscal year. "I'm terribly upset that they've missed their deadline," he told reporters after a speech commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). Senate Budget Chairman Lawton Chiles (D-Fla.) "is obviously having trouble getting a majority (of his committee) to agree to his budget," Miller said. The panel late Wednesday defeated Chiles' budget plan and will try again next week. The House Budget Committee, meanwhile, approved Wednesday a trillion-dlr spending plan for the government's year beginning Oct. 1, paving the way for a House vote. Miller also told reporters President Regan remains opposed to any tax increases other than those he himself has proposed. "We're not going to go along with a tax increase," he said. Miller told a few hundred current and former ICC officials attending the birthday party that he was an unusual choice to speak at the event as he favored the agency's abolition. "Let it die with dignity--and then we'll all get together again for a fantastic wake," he said to mild applause. Reuter 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-273 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-273 days 274-294 days 5.90 pct 5.92 pct 274-294 days 295-344 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 295-344 days 345-360 days 5.93 pct 5.93 pct 345-360 days Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO TAKE NO MONEY MARKET ACTION

The Federal Reserve is expected to take no reserve-management action in the U.S. Government securities market during its usual intervention period, economists said. They said that, if the Fed does act, it will likely add temporary reserves indirectly by arranging one to 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged 6.14 pct yesterday, opened at 5-15/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Analysts believe this probably is about where the Fed wants the funds rate to be. Reuter 
AGENCY REPORTS 30 SHIPS WAITING AT PANAMA CANAL

The Panama Canal Commission, a U.S. government agency, said in its daily operations report that there was a backlog of 30 ships waiting to enter the canal early today. Over the next two days it expects -- 4/03 4/04 Due: 36 28 Scheduled to Transit: 38 38 End-Day Backlog: 28 18 Average waiting time tomorrow -- Super Tankers Regular Vessels North End: 19 hrs 8 hrs South End: 20 hrs 16 hrs Reuter 
GLOBAL RAISES HEAVY FUELS PRICES

global petroleum corp said today it raised the posted cargo prices for number six fuel in the new york harbor 20 cts to 1.45 dlrs a barrel, effective today. the increase brings the prices for one pct sulphur to 21.30 dlrs, up 20 cts; two pct sulphur 20.85 dlrs, up one dlr; 2.2 pct sulphur 20.50, up 1.25 dlrs, and 2.5 pct sulphur 20.25 dlrs, up 1.45 dlrs, it said. prices for 0.3 pct and 0.5 pct sulphur fuels were unchanged at 22.50 and 21.85 dlrs respectively, the company said. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE DEFEATS MOVE TO CUT MEXICO AID

The Democratic-controlled U.S. Senate sided with President Reagan and defeated an attempt to cut U.S. aid to Mexico as a protest it is failing to cooperate fully with the American war against drugs. A day after the Senate trounced Reagan's attempt to sustain a veto of a major highway bill, a bipartisan majority gave him a victory by shelving on a 49 to 38 vote a measure to halve assistance given Mexico. Two companion measures also were expected to be defeated, to halve aid to Panama and the Bahamas. The fight was considered more symbolic than having significant impact, since Mexico this year is receiving a relatively small 15.7 mln dlrs in assistance. But critics said cutting the aid would hurt U.S.-Mexico relations. Reuter 
USDA CORRECTS TURKEY CREDIT ANNOUNCEMENT

The U.S. Agriculture Department said an announcement by the department yesterday concerning 15.0 mln dlrs in additional credit guarantees for exports of U.S. commodities to Turkey contained two inaccuracies. First, the USDA said its announcement should not have said that plywood was excluded from the additional three mln dlrs in GSM-102 credit guarantees for lumber. The original announcement said the guarantees included three mln dlrs for lumber, except plywood. Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager, told Reuters he did not anticipate any plywood would be included in the sales, but that "it's possible it would be." Plywood in the past has not been eligible for GSM-102 credit guarantees because it is considered by some to be a manufactured product. Members states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have pledged not to offer concessional credits on manufactured products, Sims said. However, the Reagan administration is considering whether to allow plywood sales to be covered by the credit guarantee program, Sims said. Second, the USDA announcement said 6.0 mln dlrs of a previously announced 6.0-mln dlr line for tallow under GSM-102 was available for both public and private sector importers. In fact, the line of credit guarantees for tallow is available only for public sector importers, Walter Stern, Foreign Agricultural Service Turkey analyst, said. Reuter 
PLYWOOD CREDITS EYED BY REAGAN ADMINISTRATION

The Reagan administration is debating whether to provide government credit guarantees for the export of plywood, a U.S. Agriculture Department official said. As a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, the United States has agreed not to provide any concessional credits on the export of manufactured products. However, USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims told Reuters the administration is considering allowing USDA to provide its first export credit guarantees for plywood on the grounds it is not a manufactured product. Sims said it was clear that wood products such as furniture, tables and window frames would be considered manufactured goods and therefore ineligible for export credit guarantees. However, the case of plywood was less clear. "As long as it's a basic material, we consider it still just a processed version of the basic agricultural commodity," Sims said in a telephone interview. Earlier today, USDA said that plywood was eligible under an export credit guarantee offer for Turkey announced yesterday. In its original announcement yesterday, USDA had said the offer included three mln dlrs for the export of lumber, excluding plywood. However, Sims said he did not expect any plywood exports to be including under the lumber guarantee offer. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE VOTES TO CUT PANAMA AID

The Democratic-controlled U.S. Senate voted to slash foreign aid to Panama because of drug trafficking, but sided with President Reagan by refusing to cut U.S. aid to Mexico as a protest it is failing to cooperate fully with the American war against drugs. In what Senate opponents of a cutoff said was a surprise, the Senate voted 58 to 31 to halve aid to Panama. The measure, which the administration opposes, would need House approval before any aid would be stopped. Panama is due to receive 28.5 mln dlrs in U.S. aid this year. A spokesman for the Senate Foreign Relations committee said if the House approves the measure too, half of this aid would be stopped. Reuter 
NEW YORK FUTURES EXCHANGE TO RELOCATE

Lewis Horowitz, president of the New York Futures Exchange, said the New York Stock Exchange board yesterday approved in principle an agreement to relocate the futures exchange at the New York Cotton Exchange. The agreement is subject to the approval of the Cotton Exchange board, which meets Tuesday, April 7. Reuter 
U.S., CANADA SWITCH TO DAYLIGHT TIME SUNDAY

The United States switches to daylight saving time on Sunday, April 5, when clocks will be turned ahead one hour at 0200 in all time zones. The states of Arizona and Hawaii and parts of Indiana, including Indianapolis, remain on standard time by local choice. Congress voted last year to move the start of daylight time from the last Sunday in April to the first Sunday in April. The return to standard time remains the last Sunday in October (October 25 this year). Canada also switches to daylight time on Sunday. Reuter 
WEBCOR <WER> TO BE DELISTED

Webcor Electronics Inc said April 8 will be the last day for its stock to be traded on the American Stock Exchange due to its failure to meet the financial guidelines. It said it is exploring the possibility of listing its stock on another exchange. Reuter 
FHLBB SAYS MORTGAGE RATES CONTINUE DECLINE

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board said home mortgage rates fell from early February to early March to their lowest point in nine years, but the rate of decline was slower than it had been in recent months. The bank board said the average effective commitment rate for fixed-rate mortgages for single family homes and a 25 pct loan-to-price ratio with a maturity of at least 15 years was 9.48 pct in early March. The rate was four basis points lower than a month ago, only one-eighth the size of decline in the previous month, the bank board said. Rates for adjustable-rate mortgages decline eight basis points from early February to 8.43 pct in early March, the bank board said. The drop was far less than the 15 basis point decline in the previous period, the agency said. The average effective interest rate on all loans closed by major mortgage lenders declined nine basis points from early February to early March, the agency said. The fall brought the rate to 9.14 pct was the lowest since December 1977, it said. The effective rate for ARMS was 8.39 pct, 15 basis points below a month earlier. For fixed-rate loans it was 9.36 pct, 14 basis points below a month earlier, the agency said. Reuter 
NYFE SEAT SELLS FOR 1,500 DLRS

The New York Stock Exchange said a seat on the New York Futures Exchange sold for 1,500 dlrs, which is up 250 dlrs from the previous sale yesterday. The Exchange said the current bid is 1,250 and the current offer is 1,500 dlrs. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE SAYS INTEREST RATES REFLECT MARKET

The White House said the rise in interest rates was "unfortunate in a general sense" but reflected market forces. "There's always movement up and down and the basic fact is that we believe the economy is strong and growing and there will always be fluctuations in the interest rate, but the economy is sound and in good shape," spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. Citibank raised its prime rate by one quarter of a point and the move was followed by other banks. Reuter 
U.S. JOBS DATA SAID TO RULE OUT FED TIGHTENING

A steep drop in goods-producing jobs detracted from U.S. March non-farm payroll employment and makes it unlikely that the Federal Reserve will tighten monetary policy to defend the dollar, economists said. U.S. March non-farm payroll employment rose 164,000, less than the gain of 220,000 to 290,000 the financial markets expected. Manufacturing employment fell 25,000, compared with February's 50,000 gain, while March construction employment dropped 45,000 after being unchanged in February. "The momentum of industrial activity is tapering off as we end the first quarter," said Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc. "This sets the stage for more sluggish growth in the second and third quarters." "The Fed will view this as a caution flag on the economy," he said. "They will not ease as long the dollar is weak, but clearly they can't tighten." David Wyss of Data Resources Inc said that the downward revision in February non-farm payroll employment to 236,000 from 337,000 means that employment gains in the first quarter were weaker than expected. While Wyss left his first-quarter forecast of real U.S. gross national product growth at 3.5 pct, he said the March jobs data suggested a downward revision in his second-quarter growth forecast to 2.5 pct from 2.8 pct. Bill Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc said the average monthly gain in non-farm jobs in the first quarter was only 237,000, compared with 254,000 in the fourth quarter of 1986. "There's momentum in first quarter labor force activity, but less than assumed," he said. "Gains in goods-producing jobs were subdued at best. This rules out any possibilty of the Fed tightening for exchange-related purposes." In March, the average workweek fell back to its January level of 34.8 hours from 35.0 hours in February. Manufacturing hours also fell back to their January level, totalling 40.9 hours in March compared with 41.2 hours in February. The Commerce Department noted that loss of manufacturing jobs in March was concentrated in automobile, electrical and electronic manufacturing. Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International said that a 13,000 decline in auto manufacturing employment accounted for nearly half of the total drop in manufacturing jobs. Economists said that a build-up in auto inventories resulting from a steep drop in sales has finally caught up with the labor force and may point to slower growth ahead. Most expect an increase in inventories of as much as five pct to offset a steep four to five pct drop in final sales in the first-quarter GNP accounts. Roach said he expects first quarter U.S. GNP to rise two pct, to be followed by a gain of 1.0-1.5 pct at best in the second and third quarters. He said the March drop in industrial activity "is a reasonable response in light of the inordinate contribution inventory accumulation made to GNP." Economists said the employment data also suggest weak gains in industrial production and personal income for March. They expect only marginal gains, if not small declines, for these indicators, compared with a February increases of 0.5 pct in industrial production and 0.9 pct in personal income. Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities said the drop in March construction employment may also signal a drop in March housing starts, which rose 2.6 pct in February to 1.851 million units at an annual rate from 1.804 million units in January. The rate of unemployment fell to 6.6 pct, its lowest level since March 1980, from 6.7 pct in February. But Wyss pointed out that this resulted from a drop in the labor force, which fell to 119.2 mln in March from 119.35 mln in February. "This just means that there were fewer people looking for work, so the drop in unemployment doesn't mean much," he said. He said the latest employment report will not concern the Fed because it does points to GNP growth in the first half of 2.5-3.0 pct, but "it does suggest they can't afford to tighten to quickly either." The statistical factors used to smooth out seasonal fluctuations in the jobs data may have understated March labor force gains, just as seasonal factors probably overstated them in January and February, Slifer said, but are consistent with his forecast of 1.8 pct first quarter GNP growth. Economic growth remains sluggish, but Silfer does not think that the Federal Open Market Committee changed policy at their meeting this week. "At some point they will be more inclined to ease," he said. For the time being, however, the March employment report "increases the likelihood they won't tighten, regardless of the dollar." Reuter 
TWO SEATS SELL ON THE NYFE

The New York Stock Exchanage said two seats were sold on the New York Futures Exchange. The Exchange said the first seat sold for 1,500 dlrs, which is unchanged from the previous sale, made earlier today. The Exchange said a second seat then sold for 1,250 dlrs, off 250 dlrs. It said the current bid is 300 dlrs and the current offer is 1,500 dlrs. Reuter 
ADM GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES IN BURLINGTON, IOWA

A grain elevator in Burlington, Iowa, exploded today, leaving five injured. The elevator, operated by Archer Daniels Midland Co. of Decatur, Ill., is a terminal elevator on the Mississippi River, Doug Snyder, assistant to the vice president said. The cause of the explosion and the extent of damage to the elevator was not immediatley known. Reuter 
U.S. GRAIN CARLOADINGS FALL IN WEEK

U.S. grain carloadings totaled 25,744 cars in the week ended March 28, down 4.3 pct from the previous week but 41.6 pct above the corresponding week a year ago, the Association of American Railroads reported. Grain mill product loadings in the week totalled 10,920 cars, up 0.1 pct from the previous week and 12.7 pct above the same week a year earlier, the association said. Reuter 
NEWS CORP'S <NWS> FOX DEBUTS U.S. NETWORK

Fox Broadcasting, owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp Ltd, is set to launch two prime time television shows this Sunday on what some have called the fourth television network. The company, built around Murdoch's two billion dlr acquisition of seven television stations last year, marks the first network startup since 1948, when ABC, now owned by Capital Cities/ABC Inc <CCB>, hit the airwaves. "I think our goal, more than anything else, is to provide an alternative to the three networks," said Fox president Jamie Kellner. Fox's debut comes when earnings at two of the three networks are under pressure and network advertising dollars have been growing slowly. "The barriers to entry are exceptionally high," industry analyst Peter Appert of C.J. Lawrence said. "Their (Fox) saving grace is that their parent has deep pockets." The question television industry, advertising and Wall Street executives are asking is whether this new entry can lure advertisers from the big three: CBS Inc <CBS>, ABC, and NBC, a unit of General Electric Co <GE>. Network advertising revenues rose to 8.6 billion dlrs in 1986 from 8.3 billion a year earlier, with NBC accounting for all of the gain. Revenues at CBS and ABC declined, analysts noted. "They (Fox) are competing for the same pool of funds as the traditional networks," said Jon Mandel, associate media director at Grey Advertising Inc. But James Mandelbaum, a Los Angeles-based entertainment attorney said, "If they have enough money, they have a good chance of making it work." Fox president Jamie Kellner said the company expects to lose 30 to 50 mln dlrs this year on revenues of about 150 mln dlrs. He said it will take three to five years to turn a profit. To succeed, the company must also win over the young viewership it has targeted with an offbeat set of shows, two of which debut this Sunday, and another, next weekend. The first Fox-produced program -- "The Late Show," featuring comedienne Joan Rivers -- was shown last fall on Fox's seven stations and close to 100 affiliates. Although the show has dropped recently in ratings, it still has a captive young audience in the late night time slot, analysts said. Sunday's prime-time shows include a situation comedy, "Married ... with Children," which Kellner describes as an alternative to the suger coated family shows on the networks. It is also airing "The Tracy Ullman Show," featuring the British comedienne, singer and actress. Fox has lined up 107 independent TV stations around the U.S. to run the shows. The networks have some 637 affiated stations. To make sure viewers get a chance to see the programs, the company is taking the unprecedented step of airing them three times in the course of the evening. "I believe if some of their shows were on the traditional networks, it would be extremely high-rated," Mandel said, who added that his firm has signed up several million dlrs in advertising for the shows. But some question whether Fox will really become a fourth network. Robert Adler, president of the Cabletelevision Advertising Bureau, said many cable shows are geared to the audience Fox is attempting to win. "There are already many alternatives out there to the three networks," he said. And at least one network is not yet ready to consider Fox the competition. An ABC spokesman said, "the schedule we've put together for this Sunday night ... has not taken Fox's programming schedule into account." But analysts noted that the major networks are keeping a eye on the venture to see how it fares in the ratings and with its advertisers. Fox also appears willing to take a long-term view. Asked whether the company will be looking at ratings after Sunday's debut, Kellner said, "the last thing I want to do is worry about ratings because that was the last thing Murdoch told me to do." Reuter 
U.S. SCIENTISTS SAY TROPICAL OILS HEALTH RISK

U.S. scientists said some tropical vegetable oils can be hazardous to consumers whose health is at risk because of high levels of saturated fat, lending weight to a campaign by the American Soybean Association (ASA) for labelling changes. The scientists appeared to support an ASA charge, denied by Malaysian palm growers, that imported coconut, palm and palm kernel oils contain high levels of saturated fat and thus raise blood cholesterol and the risk of heart disease. In a petition filed in January, the ASA asked the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to require palm, palm kernel and coconut oils to be identified as saturated fats on food manufacturers' labels. The FDA responded to the ASA in a letter saying it would consider the petition as a comment to a proposed rule dealing with cholesterol and fatty acid labelling of foods. Malaysian oil palm growers have said the charges by the ASA that palm oil consumption increases blood cholesterol and contributes to heart disease are untrue. But Steve Chang, Professor of Food Science at Rutgers University, said, "Palm oil is definitely not good for human health because it has a high content of saturated fatty acid." He added that the higher the fatty acid, the greater the blood cholesterol level. "It has been well established that high cholesterol levels will have a higher level of heart disease," he said. A Malaysian Oil Palm Growers Council official, Borge Bek-Nielsen, has said studies have shown that palm oil is cholesterol-free, low in saturated fats, has anti-cancer properties and prevents blood clotting and blocking of arteries in humans. Bek-Nielsen said Americans consume more saturated fats daily through food like butter, bacon, ham and beef than from palm oil, which, he added is rich in vitamins A and E. David Kritchevsky, Associate Director of the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia, appeared to take the ASA view on labelling. "What people really have to learn is to read labels," said Kritchevsky. "The more a consumer knows, the more likely he will make an intelligent choice." The U.S. scientists said they had no doubt imported palm, palm kernel and coconut oils contain high saturated fat levels. Kritchevsky, a specialist in nutrition, said, "More saturated fat would raise cholesterol levels...So, from that point of view it's a health risk. High cholesterol levels in the blood are a risk factor for heart disease." Susanne Harris, deputy assistant secretary of the U.S. Agriculture Department's Food and Consumer Services Division, said the health risk among consumers of vegetable oils with high saturated fat levels was highest among those who have heart disease. The scientists said more than 50 pct of the fatty acid content of the tropical oils was saturated, whereas less than 20 pct of the fatty acid content of soybean oil was saturated. David Ericksen, director of ASA's technical services, said U.S. soybean producers could regain about one-half of the 273 mln dlrs in sales lost to imported tropical oils if consumers were aware the vegetable oils were high in saturated fat. Imported tropical oils displace 171 mln bushels of U.S. soybean sales in the U.S. market, ASA estimates. U.S. imports of coconut oil during January totaled 82.9 mln lbs compared with 48.0 mln lbs in December and 106.5 mln a year earlier, according to Commerce Department figures. Imports of palm oil totaled 44.0 mln lbs compared with 51.3 mln lbs in December and 85.2 mln a year earlier. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BONUS FOR WHEAT TO SRI LANKA

The U.S. Agriculture Department said it has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 50,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat to Sri Lanka. A bonus of 37.44 dlrs per tonne was awarded to Continental Grain Co on the shipment scheduled for April 8-16, Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager said. An additional 10,000 tonnes of wheat are still available to Sri Lanka under the export enhancement program, Sims said. Reuter 
U.S. DURUM WHEAT BONUS BID TO ALGERIA ACCEPTED

The U.S. Agriculture Department said it has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 18,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat to Algeria. A bonus of 43.25 dlrs per tonne was awarded to Cam USA Inc on the shipment scheduled for June 20-30, Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager, said. An additional 228,000 tonnes of durum wheat are available to Algeria under the department's export enhancement program, Sims said. Reuter 
USDA OFFERS EEP BARLEY MALT TO COLOMBIA

The U.S. Agriculture Department announced Colombia has been made eligible for sales of up to 15,000 tonnes of barley malt under the department's export enhancement program, EEP. As with the previous 64 EEP initiatives, sales of U.S. barley malt would be made to buyers in Colombia at competitive world prices, USDA said. The export sales would be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corp and enable U.S. exporters to compete at commercial prices in the Colombian market, USDA said. Reuter 
<BIOASSAY SYSTEMS> STOCK DELETED FROM NASDAQ

Bioassay Systems Corp said its common stock was deleted from Nasdaq as of March 17 because two of the company's three market makers ceased trading in the stock. The company also said it agreed to sell for 100,000 dlrs assets of its closed Woburn, Mass., plant to <Toxikon Corp>, which will assume the lease on the facility. Bioassay's common stock will continue to be traded in the National Daily Quotation, or pink, sheets, it said. Reuter 
U.S. GOLD PRODUCTION ROSE IN DECEMBER

U.S. mine production of gold rose to 244,900 troy ounces in December from 244,749 ounces in November, the U.S. Interior Department's Bureau of Mines said. U.S. imports of gold in December were 692,700 ounces, vs 2,011,754 ounces in November and 611,811 ounces in December, 1985. Gold exports totaled 243,191 ounces in December, vs November's 374,468 ounces and 350,078 ounces in December a year earlier. Mine production of gold in the 12-month period Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 2,951,151 ounces, vs 2,475,436 ounces over the same period in 1985. Gold imports in Jan-Dec, 1986, totaled 15,749,447 ounces, vs 8,225,999 ounces for the same period in 1985, while exports stood at 4,612,919 ounces and 3,966,678 ounces over the respective periods, the bureau said. Reuter 
U.S. SILVER PRODUCTION ROSE IN DECEMBER

U.S. mine production of silver rose to 2,295,230 troy ounces in December from 2,181,082 in November, the Interior Department's Bureau of Mines said. U.S. imports of silver in December were 8,458,000 ounces, vs 19,950,000 in November, and 8,840,000 in December, 1985. Silver exports totaled 1,549,000 ounces in December, vs 2,346,000 in November and 1,504,000 ounces in December, 1985. Silver mining production in the 12-month period Jan-Dec, 1986 totaled 31,720,769 ounces, vs 39,357,197 ounces produced over the same period in 1985. Imports of silver in Jan-Dec, 1986 totaled 144,890,000 ounces, vs 152,601,000 ounces in Jan-Dec, 1985, while silver exports stood at 25,114,000 ounces and 24,756,000 ounces over the respective periods, the bureau said. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND

There were five grain ships loading and three ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter 
LOWER U.S. RICE STOCKS, STRONG EXPORTS - USDA

Rising demand for U.S. rice may gradually reduce surpluses while a marketing loan should help increase the U.S. share of the world rice market despite sluggish trade this year, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its quarterly rice outlook and situation summary, the department said U.S. rice use may surpass production during the 1986/87 marketing year, causing stocks to fall about 10 mln hundredweight from a year earlier to an estimated 67 mln cwt on July 31. Long grain acreage as a percentage of total acreage is expected to decline this year, the report said. USDA said factors once supportive of increased long grain acreage have turned around. Domestic prices of medium grain relative to long grain have increased, the loan differential has been greatly reduced and increases in long grain yields relative to those of other classes have leveled off. With the drop in domestic prices resulting from the marketing loan, domestic rice use is expected to grow at a faster rate, USDA said. "Development of new products and increased promotion have helped make rice more available and visible to a wider range of consumers," USDA said. USDA said world trade is expected to fall in 1987 because of large production and stocks but a weaker market should affect competing exporters more than the U.S. "The United States has already recovered a substantial share of the European Community market and made inroads into markets in the Middle East and Africa," the report said. World rice consumption is projected to reach record levels in 1986/87, the report said, as higher per capita incomes, increased domestic production and low import prices have allowed people in many countries to substitute rice for coarse grains. China, India and South Korea have increased output, while the Middle East and Africa have doubled imports since the mid-1970s, the report said. Reuter 
TURKEY ELIGIBLE FOR U.S. BONUS RICE

The U.S. Agriculture Department said Turkey has been made eligible for the sale of up to 70,000 tonnes of medium grain milled rice under the department's export enhancement program, EEP. As with the 65 previous EEP initiatives, the export sales would be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corp and made at competitive world prices, USDA said. Reuter 
INTERNATIONAL LPG PRICES MIXED

International LPG prices were mixed in the past week, with North Sea prices easier while prices in the Mediterranean and the Gulf were up in April, traders said. In the North Sea market, small cargoes of propane were sold as high as 126 dlrs per tonne on the f.o.b. basis early in the week, but prices eased after the majors posted their April contract prices, traders said. British Petroleum plc <BP> left propane unchanged at 110 dlrs and raised butane prices 5.50 dlrs to 123 dlrs, Shell, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <ST> raised propane three dlrs to 113 and butane 5.50 dlrs to 123 dlrs, they said. In the Mediterranean, prices firm in Lavera as Algerian supplies were not always available. Spot propane was unchanged, while butane rose about 25 dlrs from last week, traders said. They said, however, the Mediterranean butane market was very thin, making it subject to wide price swings. In the Gulf, strong demand from the Far East pushed premium on small cargoes five to 10 dlrs above government selling price (gsp) for propane and 10 dlrs for butane, traders said. The rising premium over gsp, however, was partially offset by about 10 pct decline in shipping, making prices for propane about unchanged and butane five dlrs higher, basis c. and f. Japan, the traders said. SPOT.(DLRS/TONNE)......PROPANE..............BUTANE........... NORTH SEA (FOB)........113/117..............125/130.......... NORTH SEA (CIF)........120/125..............135/140.......... MEDITERRANEAN.(CIF)....140/145..............175/180.......... THE GULF (FOB).........130/135..............140/145.......... JAPAN (C AND F)........155/160..............160/165.......... OFFICIAL PRICES-FOB.......................................... SAUDI ARABIA (3/1)........125.................125............ ALGERIA......(3/1)........120.................130............ BP/POSTED PRICE.(4/1).....110.................123.00......... SHELL/POSTED PRICE.(4/1)..113.................123.00......... Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FELL 822 MLN DLRS IN MARCH 25 WEEK, FED SAYS



BAKER REPEATS HE HOPES PRIME HIKE TEMPORARY

Treasury Secretary James Baker reiterated his hope that this week's rise in prime rates would be a temporary blip upwards. "I would hope that it would simply be a temporary blip upward as we've seen in the past," Baker said in television interview with the Cable News Network. The interview airs tomorrow but CNN released extracts from his remarks today. Baker also repeated his position that the reaction of financial markets to U.S. tariffs on Japanese electronic goods showed "the importance of the United States not going protectionist. The markets were telling us...be careful." reuter 
U.S. MEAT PROCESSORS ASK FOR LABELLING CHANGE

Four U.S. meat processors have asked the federal government to relax a labelling requirement which they said discourages the use of mechanically separated meat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The petition, filed by Bob Evans Farms, Odom Sausage Co, Sara Lee Corp and Owens Country Sausage, asks USDA to allow mechanically separated meat to be listed on product labels as the species from which it was derived. For example, "pork" would be listed on the ingredients statement instead of "mechanically separated pork." Under the petition, the calcium content of the meat product would have to be stated on the label and the mechanically separated meat could constitute no more than 10 pct of the meat and poultry portion of the product. Mechanically separated meat is a high-protein, low-cost product that has been approved for use since 1978, USDA said. Current regulations allow use of mechanically separated ingredients at levels up to 20 pct of the meat and poultry product, but require it to be listed in the ingredient statement as "mechanically separated (species)," USDA said. USDA said the petitioning firms claimed companies avoid using mechanically separated meat in their products because the term carries an "unwarranted negative connotation" in the minds of many consumers. The petitioners also noted that no similar regulation exists for poultry products. Mechanically separated meat is made by placing carcass parts, which usually have been hand-trimmed but still have some remaining meat, into specialized processing equipment. Reuter 
FEBRUARY FOMC VOTES UNCHANGED MONETARY POLICY

The Federal Open Market Committee at its February 10-11 meeting voted nine to one to maintain the then-existing degree of reserve restraint, minutes showed. The FOMC issued an asymmetric inter-meeting policy directive which gave greater possibility to firmer rather than easier policy. The Committee set a six to seven pct January through March annualized growth target for M-2 and M-3 and no M-1 goal. At the prior meeting in mid-December, the FOMC set a seven pct target for M-2 and M-3 for November through March. The February FOMC kept the four to eight pct Federal funds rate "reference" range for policy, as in other recent meetings. At a telephone conference on February 23, committee members discussed the possible implications of the decisions reached in Paris for U.S. intervention in foreign exchange markets. No conclusions were contained in the minutes. In its inter-meeting policy directive, the February FOMC said that "somewhat greater reserve restraint would, or slightly lesser reserve restraint might, be acceptable depending on the behavior of the aggregates, taking into account the strength of the business expansion, developments in foreign exchange markets, progress against inflation, and conditions in domestic and international credit markets." The February FOMC voted nine to one for an unchanged policy. Thomas Melzer, St Louis Federal Reserve Bank president favored some tightening of reserve conditions. He noted the strong growth in bank loans in November through January and the firm federal funds rate that had prevailed despite the extraordinary pace of reserve growth. He also cited the recent declines in the dollar's value. Finally, looking ahead, Melzer pointed out the potential for a further rise in inflationary expectations. He believed that prompt restraints might avert the need for more substantial tightening later. Regarding inter-meeting policy adjustments, the FOMC minutes showed, "the members generally felt that policy implementation should be especially alert to the potential need for some firming of reserve conditions." In this view, the FOMC said somewhat greater reserve restraint would be warranted if monetary growth did not slow in line with current expectations and there were concurrent indications of intensifying inflationary pressures against the background of stronger economic data. One indication of potential price pressure might be a further tendency for the dollar to weaken. The minutes showed that one member, presumably Melzer, preferred a directive that did not contemplate any easing during the weeks ahead. However, "most of the members did not want to rule out the possibility of some slight easing during the inter-meeting period, although they did not view the conditions for such a move as likely to emerge." The FOMC members assumed that future fluctuations in the dollar's value would not be of sufficient magnitude to have any significant effect on the Fed's economic projections. In addition, they anticipated that considerable progress would be made in reducing the federal budget deficit. Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FELL 822 MLN DLRS

Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 822 mln dlrs to 277.94 billion dlrs in the week ended March 25, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 971 mln dlrs to 280.22 billion dlrs. Reuter 
EXIMBANK LOAN CEILING SET

President Reagan set the Export-Import Bank's direct loan ceiling in fiscal year 1987 at 800 mln dlrs, a decrease of 100 mln dlrs. In a letter to Congress, Reagan also said he was not seeking any additional legislation to rescind any authority of the bank, which aids U.S. exports. Reagan said he had concluded that the statutory 1987 limit for Eximbank loan guarantee commitments should not be changed, noting that "continued growth in the U.S. economy and global recovery could create unexpected demand for guarantees and insurance." Reuter 
EXPORT BUSINESS - GRAINS/OILSEEDS COMPLEX

Grain and oilseed complex export business reported since yesterday by government agencies and private exporters - Japanese crushers bought 4,000 to 5,000 tonnes of Canadian rapeseed in export business overnight for May shipment...Greece has agreed to buy 27,000 to 33,000 tonnes of Spanish corn for spot shipment, with Italy buying 6,000 to 7,000 tonnes of Spanish corn for last/half April shipment, a spokesman for cargill's spanish unit said...Taiwan bought 54,000 tonnes of U.S. soybeans for April 20/May 5 delivery C and F... (Continued) - The India State Trading Corp bought 20,000 tonnes of optional origin soybean oil for May 20/June 20 shipment and 6,000 tonnes of RBD palm olein for April 25/May 25 shipment at its import tender yesterday...Pakistan rejected offers at its tender for 12,000 tonnes of RBD palm oil, but is expected to retender next week...The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) said it has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 50,000 tonnes of U.S. hard red winter wehat to Sri Lanka for April 8/16 shipment, with an additional 10,000 tonnes of wheat still available to Sri Lanka under the Export Enhancement Program (EEP)... (Continued) - The USDA said it has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 18,000 tonnes of U.S. durum wheat to Algeria for June 20/30 shipment, with an additional 228,000 tonnes still available to Algeria under the EEP. Tenders - Jordan will tender Monday, April 6, for 225,000 tonnes of U.S. hard and soft wheats for various April/Nov shipments under the EEP. Market talk and comment - The USDA said Turkey has been made eligible for the sale of up to 70,000 tonnes of medium grain milled rice under the EEP... Market talk and comment (continued) - The USDA announced Colombia has been made eligible for sale of up to 15,000 tonnes of U.S. barley malt under the EEP...The Canadian Grain Commission reported Canadian wheat exports in the week ended March 29 totalled 447,200 tonnes, compared with 277,700 the previous week, with 1986/87 season exports so far up to 10,228,600 tonnes versus 10,637,500 for the 1985/86 season, with barley exports 38,800 tonnes, 106,700 tonnes, 4,804,500 and 1,892,600 respectively, rapeseed 43,900 tonnes, 50,700 tonnes, 1,292,600 and 920,000 respectively and flaxseed 20,700 tonnes, 13,600 tonens, 450,900 and 392,600 respectively... Market talk and comment (continued) - Pakistan is not emerging as a major wheat exporter as World market prospects are not good enough, a government official said...Active timecharter fixing by Soviet operators to cover USSR grain imprts featured the ocean freight market this morning, ship brokers said...Dry cargo futures on the BIFFEX extended yesterday's strong advance, with sharp gains of 22 to 17 points in response to rumors of higher rates for grain business from the U.S. Gulf to Japan, dealers said. Reuter 
U.S. DEFENDS STOCKPILED TIN SALES IN 1986

The United States defended its sales of stockpiled tin in 1986 in reaction to criticism from Malaysian miners who have said it violated an agreement with southeast Asian producers. "The United States has continued to abide by the spirit of the memorandum of understanding and has consulted with the ASEAN states on GSA tin disposals," a State Department spokesman said in a statement. "The views of the ASEAN governments have been taken into account in determining disposal levels," the statement said. The United States and the ASEAN countries signed a memorandum of understanding concerning tin disposals by the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) in December 1983. In its latest annual report, the States of Malaya Chamber of Mines said the GSA sold 5,490 tonnes of tin in 1986, well above an agreed upon annual limit of 3,000 tonnes. "The United States appears to have lost sight of the U.S./ASEAN Memorandum of Understanding," it said. The State Department statement said GSA tin disposals increased in calendar year 1986 due to changed market conditions. During the first quarter of calendar year 1987, they have been running at a lower rate compared to 1986. The spokesman declined to say how much stockpiled tin the GSA sold last year, however. Reuter 
YUGOSLAVIAN BANK GETS 90 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

The World Bank said it approved a 90 mln dlr loan to Yugoslavia's third largest bank to support a project promoting energy conservation and substituting lower-cost energy sources for present sources. It said the loan consists of a credit line to Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana (LBL), to finance a project expected to improve industrial competitiveness and reduce energy imports, easing the country's current balance-of-payments difficulties. The loan will also support development of technical capabilities for energy audit work and strengthen the financial and institutional capability of LBL, the Bank said. The Bank said the project will benefit small and medium-sized industries, primarily in Yugoslavia's Republic of Slovenia. It said 600,000 dlrs of the loan will cover the foreign exchange costs of consultancy services, equipment and training abroad for technical and financial personnel. Reuter 
YUGOSLAVIAN BANK GETS 90 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

The World Bank said it approved a 90 mln dlr loan to Yugoslavia's third largest bank to support a project promoting energy conservation and substituting lower-cost energy sources for present sources. It said the loan consists of a credit line to Ljubljanska Banka, Ljubljana (LBL), to finance a project expected to improve industrial competitiveness and reduce energy imports, easing the country's current balance-of-payments difficulties. The Bank said the project will benefit small and medium-sized industries, primarily in Yugoslavia's Republic of Slovenia. It said 600,000 dlrs of the loan will cover the foreign exchange costs of consultancy services, equipment and training abroad for technical and financial personnel. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE DENIES ANY FURTHER ARMS SALES TO IRAN

The White House denied a report that the United States was continuing to ship arms or weapons-related equipment to Iran, but an administration official said there had been non-weapons sales to Tehran through commercial channels. "To the best of our knowledge, there have been no illegal sales from the forbidden munitions list," a White House spokesman said. The Defence Department also denied any military supplies had been sent to Iran since an administration ban late last year. NBC television, quoting U.S. And foreign intelligence sources, reported that the United States had been shipping weapons-related equipment to Iran as recently as last month. The administration official, who asked not to be named, told Reuters there had been commercial sales of products licensed by the Commerce Department, which maintains a list of products that can be exported without hurting national security. President Reagan banned arms shipments to Tehran after the Iran arms scandal broke last November. In January Secretary of State George Shultz told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee there would be "no more transfers of U.S.-origin military equipment to Iran, either directly or through third parties." The NBC report said the Pentagon was coordinating shipments of anti-aircraft command and control equipment used to direct fire of weapons systems. It said some shipments labelled "machine parts" had moved through Ostend, Belgium,on aircraft of the Santa Lucia Airways, which it identified as operated by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). The CIA refused to comment. NBC said the equipment was flown to Pakistan and then on to Iran by Pakistani civilian and military aircraft. Later, State Department spokeswoman Sondra McCarty said: "We categorically deny that the United States is selling and/or sending any weapons to Iran." She added that Washington was "not doing anything in connection with the government of Iran which is not consistent with U.S. Laws or trade policy." Another administration official, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters the United States had licensed commercial sales of low-technology computer equipment to Iran, amounting to about 60 mln dlrs over the last three years. REUTER 
U.S. NAVY SAID INCREASING PRESENCE NEAR GULF

Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger has ordered the U.S. Navy to increase its presence near the Gulf in an effort to fulfil President Reagan's pledge to keep oil flowing to Europe and Japan, The New York Times reported. The newspaper quoted Pentagon officials as saying the Navy would keep the aircraft carrier Kitty Hawk on station in the Arabian Sea and the rest of the Indian Ocean until May, three months longer than planned. The Navy would then have a carrier battle group of six to eight warships in the area at all times rather than part of the time, as happens now, the paper said. The paper said that last month U.S. Intelligence sources said they had spotted land-based anti-ship missiles of a Chinese design known in the West as the HY-2 near the Strait of Hormuz. It said their purpose was seen as a signal Iran was ready to continue and perhaps step up the Gulf shipping war against Iraq. U.S. Carriers or battleships would sail out of range of those missiles, but within striking distance, the paper quoted officials as saying. From several hundred miles at sea, carriers could launch aircraft bombing runs or missile strikes, and battleships could fire long-range missiles, the paper said. REUTER 
MARCH U.S. PURCHASING MANAGERS INDEX UP AT 53.9

The U.S. economy in March improved at a faster rate than in February, with the National Association of Purchasing Management's composite index rising to 53.9 pct from 51.9 pct, the NAPM said. The first quarter average for the index also was 53.9 pct. The NAPM said that, if this average were to continue for the rest of 1987, it would be consistent with real gross national product growth of about three pct. An index reading above 50 pct generally indicates that the economy is in an expanding phase. One below 50 pct implies a declining economy. The NAPM said the economic improvement was evident in all of the indicators in the index except inventories, which declined slightly. New orders rose sharply in March, with production also higher. Vendor deliveries slowed, another sign that the economy improved in March. Employment expanded for the first time since August 1984. Robert Bretz, chairman of the NAPM's business survey committee and director of materials management at Pitney Bowes Inc <PBI> said "the economy ended the first quarter with a healthy, if not substantial improvement." Bretz said the sharp rise in the growth of new orders in March assures a good beginning for the second quarter. Some 50 pct of the purchasing managers reported that they were paying higher prices in March than at the end of 1986. Of those paying higher prices now, the average increase was put at 2.5 pct. The estimated average price increase anticipated by members for the remainder of 1987 is 2.1 pct. While prices continue to rise, the NAPM said that most purchasers do not see them as being significant. The composite index is a seasonally adjusted figure, based on five components of the NAPM business survey - new orders, production, vendor deliveries, inventories and employment. The monthly report is based on questions asked of purchasing managers at 250 U.S. industrial companies. Reuter 
U.S. CREDIT MARKET OUTLOOK - CAUTIOUS TRADING

U.S. Bond trading is likely to remain cautious in the near term with a possible downward price bias as market participants focus on trends in the dollar, the economy and Federal Reserve policy, economists said. Most expect the economy to continue showing modest gains, that the dollar has more room to fall and that the Fed will keep policy essentially steady, perhaps for several months. Until trends are clearer, "the market can only attempt to to establish and hold a new trading range at higher interest rates," said economists at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Merrill Lynch economists Raymond Stone and Ward McCarthy said that while the fundamentals generally bode for a healthy investment climate, the market will have no confidence in this environment until there is illumination of and confidence in U.S. Dollar/trade policy. Salomon Brothers' Henry Kaufman said the bond market, highly sensitized to dollar movements, could be encouraged if currency markets seem to be stabilizing or if U.S. And overseas economic growth is perceived as slowing sharply. "The crucial question, however, is how soon either of these developments is likely to occur," Kaufman said. "Market uncertainties and the erosion of portfolio manager confidence could continue portfolio selling pressure a while longer," said Philip Braverman, chief economist at Irving Securities Corp. However, Braverman said that, "from a longer term perspective, current (bond) prices provide a buying opportunity." Despite a nearly one-point bond price rebound Friday on unexpectedly weak March employment data, key 30-year Treasury bonds lost 2-1/4 points in price for the week as a whole and Thursday's 7.93 pct closing yield was a 1987 high. Braverman said historical evidence suggests that a long bond yield in the 7.93 pct area provides a basis for optimism. Bonds closed at 7.86 pct on Friday. The Irving economist noted that three times last year, in a similar "paroxysm of pessimism," the key bonds reached a similar closing yield high. Within three to six weeks in each instance, however, Braverman said bond prices recovered to bring the yield down sharply by 63 to 82 basis points. Mitchell Held of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc said that many portfolio managers now believe yields could approach nine pct by midyear, which he considers unlikely. Held said that, since late 1986, Smith Barney analysts have spoken about the risk that interest rates could move higher and they continue to believe that an upward bias is likely to persist over the next few months. Held said that in conversations with portfolio managers last week there appeared to be increasing belief that the rate rise had just begun and that yields could approach nine pct by midyear. Naturally, that would mean a sharp bond price fall. "Yields could rise further over the next few months, but the rise should be less than the 65 basis point rise we've seen since the start of the year," Held said. Most expect Fed policy to be neutral for bonds near term. "The Fed is currently frozen into a fixed stance," said economists at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc. They said the Fed cannot tighten policy and push up interest rates as might be appropriate to stabilize the dollar and head off renewed inflationary psychology. That might harm the fragile U.S. Economic expansion. The Lanston economists said, "The Fed cannot ease its policy stance to both foster more rapid economic growth and calm domestic and Third World debt jitters without the threat of causing a further decline in the dollar." Minutes of February's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting released Friday showed that while the FOMC left policy unchanged it was more inclined to firm rather than ease policy later if conditions in the economy, foreign exchange or credit markets warranted a policy shift. However, economists generally believe that continued fairly sluggish U.S. Economic growth and the financial strains on U.S. Banks resulting from their problem loans to developing countries rule out any Fed policy firming. There is broad agreement among economists that the FOMC at last Tuesday's meeting also left Fed policy unchanged. This week's U.S. Economic data are expected to have little impact. February consumer instalment credit numbers are due on Wednesday, with March producer price data out Friday. There may be mild relief in some quarters that the U.S. Purchasing Managers Composite Index, a closely-watched economic indicator, rose only to 53.9 pct in March from 51.9 pct. A Friday rumor had put the number far higher. The index's first quarter average also was 53.9 pct, translating into real GNP growth of about three pct if continued through 1987. Federal funds traded at 5-15/16 pct late Friday and are expected to open about there today with no Fed action seen. REUTER 
KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER

Kuwait may re-register part of its tanker fleet with foreign flag jurisdictions, including the U.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect them from Iranian missile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials were quoted by the New York Times as saying. The transfers would allow the country of registration to escort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf. Kuwait had earlier declined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too public an admission of its need for protection, they said. Kuwait is also looking at flagging-out to European registries, the officials said. Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through the Gulf may get Soviet escorts, the officials said. Kuwait had earlier considered having both USSR and U.S. Escorts, but the U.S. Was unwilling to give the Soviet Union a naval role in the region, the newspaper quoted the officials as saying. Kuwait has backed Iraq in the seven-year war against Iran and its ships have increasingly been the target of Iranian attacks. The U.S. And Kuwait have been negotiating for over a month on methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships. REUTER 
NO INTERVENTION, DOLLAR FIXED AT 1.8218 MARKS

The Bundesbank did not intervene as the dollar was fixed lower at 1.8218 marks after 1.8243 yesterday, dealers said. Dealers said dollar trading was very quiet over the European morning, with operators made wary by today's meeting of the Group of Five finance ministers and central bank chiefs ahead of the full IMF/World Bank session in Washington. It was undermined by remarks from U.S. Council of Economic Advisers Chairman Beryl Sprinkel who told Iowa bankers the U.S. Had no objective regarding the value of the dollar. Sprinkel also called the reference to stabilizing exchange rates at about current levels, made at the Paris meeting on February 22, a "vague statement," casting doubt on operators' assumptions that a secret target level had been set. Sprinkel added that if West Germany and Japan made progress to stimulate their economies as the Paris agreement envisaged, "there would not be the necessity of significant declines in the dollar." One dealer for a U.S.-based bank noted the dollar tended easier after the remarks. "They were obviously regarded as being negative. And if the market starts regarding anything that comes out negatively then it means that the underlying sentiment is negative," he said. Some early selling pressure softened the dollar's undertone. Most operators overlooked intervention by the Bank of Japan to support the dollar against selling in favour of the yen by institutional investors and overseas operators, dealers said. After the strong focus on the dollar/yen rate in recent weeks up to the end of the Japanese financial year on March 31, interest and activity was likely to switch, dealers said. "We can start to look at a point in time where the interest shifts away from dollar/yen and more into dollar/mark and the other European currencies," the U.S. Bank dealer said. Despite the softer undertone, traders would remain wary of taking significant new positions during the Washington meetings, dealers said. Aside from the G-5 session today, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl is due to meet the German Affairs group on international monetary issues later. The mark gained some strength from news the Bundesbank set a new securities repurchase tender to add money market liquidity at a fixed 3.80 pct, unchanged from those over the last several weeks. Some expectation had been growing that it might cut the rate or move to a minimum interest rate tender, signalling a desire for a slight easing in credit policy. Bundesbank central bank council member Lothar Mueller said the Bundesbank had not given up its focus on money supply. A monetary policy which took into account exchange rates and capital flows could not be confused with an exchange-rate oriented policy, he said, contradicting some growing sentiment. Sterling eased a touch to 2.950 marks at the fixing from 2.957. The yen's unabated strength, despite the intervention, brought it up to 1.2555 marks per 100 from yesterday's 1.2480. The Swiss franc rose to a fix of 120.515 marks per 100 from 120.180. The French franc eased to 30.055 marks per 100 after 30.060, Belgian franc was little changed at 4.829 marks per 100. REUTER 
KUWAIT MAY RE-REGISTER GULF TANKERS - NEWSPAPER

Kuwait may re-register part of its tanker fleet with foreign flag jurisdictions, including the U.S. And USSR, in an attempt to protect them from Iranian missile attacks in the Gulf war zone, U.S. Officials were quoted by the New York Times as saying. The transfers would allow the country of registration to escort Kuwaiti-owned ships in the Gulf. Kuwait had earlier declined an offer of U.S. Naval escorts as too public an admission of its need for protection, they said. Kuwait is also looking at flagging-out to European registries, the officials said. Soviet flag tankers transporting Kuwaiti oil through the Gulf may get Soviet escorts, the officials said. Kuwait had earlier considered having both USSR and U.S. Escorts, but the U.S. Was unwilling to give the Soviet Union a naval role in the region, the newspaper quoted the officials as saying. Kuwait has backed Iraq in the seven-year war against Iran and its ships have increasingly been the target of Iranian attacks. The U.S. And Kuwait have been negotiating for over a month on methods of protecting Kuwaiti ships. REUTER 
OCCIDENTAL <OXY> IN BIG PERU HEAVY OIL FIND

Occidental Petroleum Corp said the Shiviyacu-23 development well on Block 1-AB in the Peruvian Amazon jungle is producing 6,593 barrels of 22 degree gravity oil per day from depths of 9,543 to 9,547 and 9,556 to 9,599 feet. The company said it is drilling a new exploration well on the block, Southeast Shiviyacu-1, 2.5 miles away. Reuter 
U.S. AID CHIEF TO BE NAMED TO TOP TREASURY POST

President Reagan will shortly nominate the head of the U.S. program for Third World development, Peter McPherson, as second-ranking officer of the Department of the Treasury, administration sources said. They said the White House was expected to announce McPherson's nomination to succeed Richard Darman as deputy Treasury scretary later this week. The nomination is subject to Senate approval. McPherson has headed the Agency for International Development (AID) since 1981. As Treasury Secretary James Baker's chief assistant, he would be expected to work closely on international economic policy, including the major problems of the Mexican and Brazilian debts. McPherson, a lawyer, worked in the White House under President Gerald Ford, after serving as a corporate tax specialist for the Internal Revenue Service. He also spent two years in Peru as a member of the Peace Corps. Darman, who was considered to have played a central role in achieving agreements among industrial countries on international economic policy, will leave the Treasury on April 13 to join the Investment Banking Group of Shearson Lehman Brothers. Reuter 
MAGMA RAISES COPPER PRICE 0.50 CT TO 66.00 CTS

Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is raising its copper cathode price by 0.50 cent to 66.00 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
KANEB ENERGY <KEP> SAYS JURY RULES FOR IT

Kaneb Energy Partners Ltd, 82 pct owned by Kaneb Services Inc <KAB>, said a juiry in Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, Ala., has ruled in its favor and that of Jim Walter Corp <JWC> against Sonat Inc <SNT> in a dispute over a natural gas sales contract. The company said the suit was filed seekiong to enforce Sonat's obligations under the contract to pay for methane gas produced by the Brookwood Coal Degasificiation Project in the Black Warrior Basin of Alabama, which is equally owned by Kaneb and Jim Walter. Kaneb said the jury awarded it and Jim Walter about 22 mln dlrs for required payments for deliveries through January 1987 plus interest through March 16 -- the full amount sought -- and rejected Sonat's counterclaim of fraud. It said the decision may be appealed. Reuter 
TANDEM COMPUTER <TDM> NOW TRADING ON NYSE

Tandem Computer Inc said its common stock is now listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TDM. The company's securities were previously traded on the NASDAQ National Market System under the synbol TNDM. Reuter 
VOLCKER SAYS EXCHANGE RATE ADJUSTMENT ENOUGH TO NARROW U.S. TRADE DEFICIT



GRAIN RESERVE HOLDINGS -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department gave a preliminary breakdown of grain in the Farmer-Owned Grain Reserve as of April 1, with comparisons, based on telephone reports from farmers filed with the department's Kansas City field office, in mln bushels -- April 1 Previous Wheat 657.6 659.7 Corn 1,406.5 1,397.0 Sorghum 95.8 95.5 Barley 122.1 122.0 Oats 3.7 3.7 Reuter 
GRAIN RESERVE HOLDINGS BREAKDOWN

The U.S. Agriculture Department gave the following breakdown of grain remaining in the farmer-owned grain reserve as of April 1, in mln bushels, by reserve number -- I II III IV V VI Wheat nil nil 0.1 0.3 10.5 479.7 Corn -- -- -- 4.1 1,231.9 -- Sorghum-x -- -- -- 0.1 38.8 -- Barley -- -- -- 0.1 73.9 -- x - mln cwts. Note - USDA says above totals may not match total in reserve numbers. Reuter 
RUDING AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL, TRADE CURBS

Shifts in domestic economic policy, not a further fall in the dollar or trade restrictions, are the key to reducing imbalances in trade and payments, Dutch Finance Miniister H. Onno Ruding said. Ruding told a meeting of the World Trade Forum here that protectionism would naturally lead to retaliation and aggravate the problems of heavily indebted developing countries. "The main contribution towards resolving the still enourmous U.S. trade deficit is not repeat not a further fall in the dollar, is not still more protectionism in your country." "No, it is - like in other countries - changes in domestic economic and financial policies," Ruding said. Ruding said he was less worried about a crisis of the weakening dollar than he was in January before the Paris accord to stabilize foreign exchange rates. He said the highest priority should be given to policy changes in the United States, especially reducing the budget deficit and encouraging domestic savings. But he said other countries, such as Japan and West Germany, also needed to take greater steps toward reducing their trade surpluses. Reuter 
NMR CENTERS <NMRC> ON NASDAQ NATIONAL SYSTEM

NMR Centers Inc said its common stock has started trading on the NASDAQ National Market System, making it eligible for margin financing. Reuter 
OUND ADVICE <SUND> JOINS NASDAQ NATIONAL SYSTEM

Sound Advice Inc said its common stock has started trading on the NASDAQ National Market System. Reuter 
VOLCKER WARNS AGAINST SIZEABLE DLR DECLINE

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said a further large drop in the value of the dollar could be counterproductive for world economic growth. Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Volcker said that Europe and Japan were slowing exports and that growth in those countries was also decreasing. "In that kind of situation, further sizeable depreciation of the dollar could well be counterproductive," he said. Domestic expansion in foreign industrial countries has not been enough to offset the effects of slower exports, Volcker said. On the value of the dollar, Volcker said he could not say whether it should be higher or lower to restore balance in trade. "What we do know is that a substantial exchange rate adjustment has already been made," he said. "That adjustment should be large enough, in a context of a growing world economy and fiscal restraint in the United States, to support the widespread expectations of a narrowing in the real trade deficit in the period ahead," he said. Volcker said U.S. exports were now growing substantially while import growth should slow. Volcker said that to improve the trade deficit with a minimum of inflationary pressure, the United States would have to slow its spending growth. It would also have to achieve a better balance between investment and domestic savings if it wants to be able to dispense with foreign capital. "The constructive way to work in the needed direction would be to reduce our budget deficit, year by year, paving the way for improvements in our trade accounts," he said. Relying on depreciation of the dollar alone would risk renewed inflation, he said. Reuter 
HITK <HITK> JOINS NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET SYSTEM

HITK Corp said its common stock will be included in NASDAQ's National Market System starting today, making the stock marginable. Reuter 
CHINA SOYBEAN OUTPUT DOWN SLIGHTLY - USDA REPORT

China's soybean crop this year is forecast at 11.5 mln tonnes, down slightly from 11.55 mln estiamted for last year, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Peking said in a field report. The report, dated April 2, said Chinese imports this year are projected at 300,000 tonnes unchanged from last year's level. Exports are forecast to increase to 1.0 mln tonnes from 800,000 tonnes exported last year, the report said. Imports of soybean oil are estimated at 200,000 tonnes, also unchanged from last year. Reuter 
VOLCKER URGES QUICK AID TO DEBTOR NATIONS

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that debtor nations have made much progress in laying the groundwork for economic growth, but a solution to world debt difficulties was endangered by inaction on new financing. "There is clearly a danger that adequate financing arrangements are not being negotiated and put in place in a timely way," Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee. The borrowing countries need to be able to proceed with confidence that the necessary funds will be available to them, he said. Brazil has the potential for becoming a leading world economic power, but it is in a difficult position today, Volcker said. He said it will take a concerted effort to regularize Brazil's external payments. "The key prerequisite is clearly in the hands of Brazilian authorities," he said. Both Brazil and its creditors have a strong incentive to work together, Volcker said. Regarding trade imbalances, Volcker said that it was critically important that markets be kept open by the industrial nations. In addition, the United States must reduce its budget deficit and foreign nations need to provide stimulus to their domestic economies, Volcker said. "We need time for those actions and the earlier depreciation to work their effects," he said. Reuter 
VOLCKER URGES GREATER EXCHANGE RATE STABILITY

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said international policymakers should make improving the stability of exchange rates a major priority. In testimony before a Senate Banking subcommittee, Volcker said he does not have any specific proposals for improving exchange rate stability, but thought it was worthy goal. "I do think we ought to be thinking about and working toward greater exchange rate stability," Volcker said. "I think that the objective of greater exchange rate stability ought to loom larger among our various policy priorities." Reuter 
VOLCKER SEES DOLLAR AS FACTOR IN MONETARY POLICY

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said the performance of the dollar in exchange markets could be a factor in the U.S. central bank's decisions on monetary policy. "The performance of the dollar in the exchange market might become a factor bearing on our provision of reserves," Volcker said in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee. He said that fiscal policy changes in the United States, Germany and Japan would be more important that intervention to instill confidence in current exchange rate levels. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. They said the Fed is expected to execute anywhere from 1.5-2.0 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset seasonal pressures on bank reserves. Federal funds, which averaged 6.20 pct yesterday, opened at 6-1/8 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter 
VOLCKER PUSHES SPENDING CUTS OVER TRADE BILL

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said reducing the federal budget deficit was a more important goal for Congress than drafting trade legislation. "Reduce the budget deficit," Volcker responded when asked by a member of the Senate Banking Committee about trade legislation priorities. "If you don't deal with the budget deficit, everything else you do is going to be counterproductive," he said. Reuter 
SWEDEN'S ERICSSON WINS U.S. ORDER

Sweden's Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson <ERIC.ST> said it has won its third contract from U.S. West Co Inc <WST> for digital exchange equipment to be supplied in the state of Idaho over the next five years. No financial details were available. The company said the contract provided for the replacement of more than 50 older exchanges run by <Mountain Bell>, one of U.S. West's three operating companies, with Ericsson's AXE system. Reuter 
VOLCKER SEES TIGHT POLICY HURTING INVESTMENT

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said a restrictive monetary policy would be damaging to investment and that a better course would be to restrain spending. "A restrictive monetary policy would hit investment. You don't want to put interest rates up unless you have to," Volcker told the Senate Banking Committee. "That is not a constructive way to proceed," he said. Volcker said that given a choice between squeezing the budget deficit or squeezing investment, he would favor squeezing the budget deficit. In response to a question about banks, Volcker said he would be pleased if Congress decided to give banks a tax writeoff as an incentive for them to take greater reserves against loans to debtor countries. "If you give a tax writeoff for reserving against loans, then we will see more reserving and that would make me happy," Volcker told Committee Chairman Sen William Proxmire (D-Wisc). Reuter 
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to arrange two-day repurchase agreements for system account, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed said. Fed funds were trading at 6-1/8 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. Most economists had expected a less aggressive injection of reserves via customer repurchase agreements. Reuter 
KUWAIT ASKS TO USE FOREIGN FLAG TANKERS, U.S SAYS

Kuwait has asked at least four countries, including the United States, Soviet Union, Britain and China, for temporary use of their flags or tankers to protect Kuwaiti oil shipments in the troubled Persian Gulf, Reagan Administration officials said. The officials confirmed a New York Times report that Kuwait wants to transfer some of its oil tankers to U.S. or Soviet registration in hopes Iran would be reluctant to launch new "Silkworm" missiles at superpower flags. The United States has vowed to keep the gulf open to international oil traffic and has warned Tehran against using the Chinese-made missiles recently installed in Iran near the mouth of the gulf. "They (the Kuwaitis) have also asked Britain, China and possibly some other European countries to lease tankers to carry their oil," one of the administration officials, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters. The United States is considering the request to temporarily transfer Kuwaiti ships to American registration, but such a move could create insurance and other problems, the officials said. U.S. defense officials told Reuters yesterday that Kuwait had decided for at least the time being not to accept a U.S. offer to use American warships to escort its tankers in the gulf, where both Iran and Iraq have been attacking shipping. Reuter 
U.S. GRAIN CERTS SAVE 50-100 MLN DLRS - AMSTUTZ

The use of generic commodity certificates, or "certs," for fiscal years 1986-88 will save the government 50 to 100 mln dlrs, Department of Agriculture Undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said. Speaking at a House agriculture subcommittee hearing on the use of the certificates, Amstutz said that the issuance of 8.5 billion dlrs of certificates during fiscal years 1986-88 could result in government outlays of up to 400 mln dlrs. However, the use of certificates preclude the need for 450 to 500 mln dlrs in storage and handling costs, resulting in net savings for the government of 50-100 mln dlrs, he said. Without the use of certificates, Amstutz said nearly the entire 1985 crop which had been put under loan would have been forfeited to the Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC. In addition, 260 mln bushels of grain that have been redeemed from CCC inventory through certificate exchanges would have remained in the goverment inventory, he said. When asked to comment on a recent study by the General Accounting Office that concluded certificates result in a net cost to the government, Amstutz said, "GAO underestimated the benefits and overstated the costs" of the certificate program. Amstutz said while certificates encourage more loan entries, they also encourage heavier loan redemptions rather than forfeitures. GAO underestimated this net loan activity, Amstutz said. "There is no question in the mind of the Department of Agriculture that these certificates have been very useful," Amstutz said. Immediate benefits of certificates include greater market liquidity, improved market price competitiveness, higher farm income, and improved debt situation and decreased carrying costs, he said. Certificates are an integral part of USDA's long-range market-oriented farm policy, he said. Amstutz told subcommittee Chairman Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kans., that USDA is in the process of preparing an official response to the GAO study on certificates and will submit it to the subcommittee when completed. Reuter 
VOLCKER SAYS FED POLICY NOT LINKED TO RATE RISE

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker said that he did not believe there was a connection between the Fed's policies and the recent rise in the prime interest rate by most major U.S. banks. Asked by reporters following testimony before the Senate Banking Committee whether the Fed had anything to do with the rise to 7-3/4 pct in the prime, he replied, "not that I was able to detect." Reuter 
U.S. SAYS NO PACT ON RELIEF FOR POOREST STATES

There is no consensus so far among industrial countries on an agreement providing debt relief for the world's poorest nations, a senior U.S. Treasury official said. The official said, "There has not been a consensus reached yet," when asked about reports the Paris club of western creditors had agreed to long-term stretch outs of African debt at concessional interest rates. The official, briefing reporters on this week's semiannual IMF meetings, said the issue would be discussed this week and the U.S. had an open mind on the proposal but it did object to concessional interest rate relief. Reuter 
U.S. MINT SEEKING OFFERS ON COPPER, NICKEL

The U.S. Mint said it is seeking offers on 3,701,000 lbs of electrolytic copper and 629,000 lbs of electrolytic cut nickel cathodes or briquettes that it intends to purchase. It said both metals are for delivery in the week of May 11 to Olin Corp, East Alton, Ill. Offers for the copper are due by 1100 hrs EDT, April 21, while offers on the nickel are due at 1100 hrs EDT on April 14. The Mint said that firms, in submitting their offers, select to receive payment by standard check or be wire transfer. Awards are determined by whichever of the two methods is most cost advantageous, based on the cost of money at that time. The minimum acceptance periods for each solicitation is three calendar days for the copper and 10 calendar days for the nickel, the Mint said. Reuter 
MORE U.S. GRAIN CERTIFICATES NEEDED, STUDY SAYS

More generic grain certificates should be released onto the market in order for the U.S. certificate program to have its full effect on commodities, according to a study by Sparks Commodities Inc. The Agriculture Department should make grain deficiency payments and paid land diversion payments in a two-third certificate, one-third cash ratio through fiscal year 1989, Carroll Brunthaver, president of Sparks Commodities, told a House agriculture subcommittee hearing on certificates. Thereafter, government payments should be issued in roughly a 50-50 split between cash and certificates, Brunthaver said. The Sparks study on certificates examined two possible scenarios through the 1990 growing season -- a "zero certificate case," where no certificate program was assumed, and an alternative case labeled "adequate certificate case" in which sufficient certificates would be released so that grain prices would not be artificially supported by market shortages due to acreage reduction programs or government holdings. The study showed that total grain use under the adequate certificate scenario would exceed the zero certificate scenario by 11.2 pct. Usage would be markedly more in 1989 and 1990, when grain usage under a certificate program was estimated to exceed the zero certificate case by 15 to 19 pct. For the five-year period examined, government expenditures under the adequate certificate case were 7.0 billion dlrs, or 7.5 pct less than under the zero certificate case. The Sparks study said that 5.1 billion dlrs, or 70 pct of those savings resulted from smaller government storage costs. The study also estimated that government grain stocks under the adequate certificate case would be 4.7 billion bushels below the zero certificate case at the end of the period examined. The Sparks study said that while certificates permit market prices to fall below loan levels, these lower prices increase commodity usage and reduce the net costs of certificates versus cash. Reuter 
USSR CROP WEATHER SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Gradual warming continued in most regions of Western Soviet Union in the week ended April 4, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In its International Weather and Crop Summary, the agency said most of the region's precipitation fell as rain. The southern snow cover boundary continued to slowly retreat northward and eastward, it said. Moderate to deep snow cover the northern half of the Ukraine, northern North Caucasus, and the lower Volga, about one month later than usual, it said. The agency said average weekly temperatures were below normal in the southeast, near normal in the southwest and northeast, and above normal in the northwest. Winter grains remained dormant over the region, but warm weather promoted greening in crop areas adjacent to the Black Sea coast, it said. Reuter 
U.S. WEATHER/COTTON SUMMARY -- USDA/NOAA

Cotton planting continued progressing in the week ended April 5, but cold, wet weather in the South hampered seedbed preparation, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said. In a summary of its Weather and Crops Bulletin, the agency said planting increased in California as soil temperatures improved. Texas planted 10 pct compared with an average of eight pct. Arizona and Georgia planted 35 pct and two pct, respectively, it said. Oklahoma farmers prepared 10 pct of their cotton seedbeds, 15 points below average, the agency said. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS

Nine grain ships were loading and 16 were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sources said. ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING Continental Grain, Westwego 1 5 Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 1 0 ADM Growmark 1 2 Bunge Grain, Destrehan 1 0 ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN 1 1 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP 1 0 PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO 1 1 CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE 1 4 CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN 0 0 ZEN-NOH 1 3 reuter 
BOESKY AIDE AGREES TO STOCK TRADING PENALTIES

Michael Davidoff, head trader for Ivan Boesky's Seemala Corp, consented to Securities and Exchange Commission penalities and agreed to help in its continuing investigation of insider trading, the SEC said. Davidoff recently pleaded guilty in federal court to violating the net capital requirements governing brokers and traders. The SEC had filed similar charges and it said Davidoff had consented to a final judgement enjoing him from future stock trading violations. The SEC said Davidoff consented to its order without admitting or denying the allegations that he aided and abetted violations by a broker and dealer. It also said Davidoff consented to a planned SEC order to bar him from future securities dealings. reuter 
IOWA GRAIN ELEVATOR EXPLODES, BURNS

An explosion and fire today damaged a grain elevator in Bancroft, Iowa, destroying thousands of bushels of grain, authorities said. The pre-dawn explosion ripped the wooden elevator open, and a fire that followed continued burning at late morning but had been contained, according to a dispatcher at the Algona Police Department. No injuries were reported at the Lone Rock Coop facility. The dispatcher said the elevator was filled with corn, and a nearby drying building holding soybeans was on fire. The explosion was the second in four days in Iowa following the destruction of an Archer Daniels Midland elevator in Burlington last Friday. Reuter 
CANADA LAWMAKERS URGE EXEMPTION FROM U.S. BILL

Lawmakers from Ontario asked their U.S. counterparts to exempt Canada from the mandatory trade retaliation provisions in a major trade bill being considered by the U.S. Congress. At a meeting of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, an organization of U.S. legislators, David Cooke, chairman of the Ontario Parliament's Select Committee on Economic Affairs, said the exemption would help trade relations. The trade legislation to be considered by the full House in late April would require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign unfair trade practices unless the trade actions would harm the U.S. economy. Currently, Reagan can reject trade sanctions on any grounds. Cooke, a member of the Liberal party, told the U.S. congressmen, "I can understand (the trade bill). I think it has to do with concerns you have with the other parts of the world." "I would suggest to you that we are your best friends. You do not have those concerns with Canada and you should sincerely consider exempting our country from that bill," he added. Reuter 
U.S. CERTIFIED COFFEE STOCKS DOWN IN LATEST WEEK

The amount of coffee stored in New York and New Orleans warehouses and certified for delivery against the New York Coffee "C" futures totalled 585,555 bags as of April 3, compared with 585,794 bags the previous week, a net decrease of 239 bags, the New York Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange said. The total comprised 392,845 bags in New York, an increase of 261 bags, and 192,710 bags in New Orleans, a drop of 500 bags. The exchange said there were nil bags pending classification. There were 56,578 bags pending certification, including 32,553 in New York and 24,025 in New Orleans, the exchange said. reuter 
U.S. IMMIGRATION RULES SPARK CONGRESS OBJECTIONS

New immigration rules relating to alien farm workers and reportedly being drafted by the U.S. Agriculture Department are meeting with objections in Congress, sources on Capitol Hill said. USDA is drafting regulations, required by a 1986 law, that would offer amnesty to illegal aliens if they worked in the cultivation of fruits, vegetables and other perishable commodities. The department is considering including in its definition of perishable commodities such farm products as tobacco, hops, Spanish reeds and Christmas trees, while excluding sugar cane, the New York Times reported yesterday. Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., would like to see the definition extended to include sugar cane, cultivation of which is "a breeding ground for one of the scandals of the nation," Gene Smith, a spokesman for Berman, said. Livestock, dairy and poultry producers have been lobbying USDA hard to have their products covered by the amnesty provision, farm industry sources said. Chuck Fields of the American Farm Bureau Federation said livestock producers were "desperate" because they fear they will be unable to retain the many illegal aliens who have joined that industry. A House staff member involved in drafting the landmark 1986 immigration law who asked not to be identified said Congress did not mean to extend special amnesty provisions to workers who helped cultivate tobacco, and that inclusion of hops and Spanish reeds was "marginal." In addition, lawmakers made it clear during consideration of the bill that lumber workers were not to be covered by the the amnesty provisions, making the inclusion of Christmas trees "a tough call," this source said. USDA officials declined to comment on the draft regulation except to say it was subject to change before it will be released, probably some time later this month. While lawmakers may object to the USDA rule under consideration relating to perishable commodities, Congress is not likely to reopen debate on the controversial immigration question, congressional sources said. The amnesty provision specially designed for farm workers was crucial to passage of the overall immigration bill. Congressional staff members estimate the special farm worker amnesty provision would apply to between 250,000 to 350,000 aliens. The law would allow eligible farm workers who worked for 90 days during the year ending May 1, 1986, to apply for temporary, then permanent, resident status. Reuter 
MAGMA LOWERS COPPER PRICE 0.50 CT TO 65.50 CTS

Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is lowering its copper cathode price by 0.50 cent to 65.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
YEUTTER WARNS CONGRESS ON TRADE RETALIATION

U.S. trade representative Clayton Yeutter said that if Congress were to require trade retaliation, it would only close markets and would result in less trade. In remarks prepared for an address to members of the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, Yeutter said many Congressional proposals do not appear to be overtly protectionist, yet their undeniable effect would be to close off market opportunitites, just as exchange rate movement is unleashing such opportunities for the first time in several years. "Despite all our progress on trade policy and despite the President's comprehensive competitiveness initiative, there are many in Congress who still are supporting trade bills containing many dangerous provisions," Yuetter said. Yeutter said many countries would prefer U.S. retaliation to opening their own markets. "We should be intelligent enough to not let them off the hook that easily," he said. He said that tough but flexible legislative language is infinitely preferable to tough but inflexible language. Both House and Senate trade proposals place undesirable limits on Presidential discretion, he said. "Limiting the President's ability to consider all available options on issues as sensitive as these would be most unwise," Yeutter said. "That could readily provoke retaliation, which would unneccesarily embroil us in trade wars, injuring most competitive export industries." Yeutter said present U.S. trade laws are fundamentally sound. President Reagan has threatened or implemented retaliation eight times in the last 18 months -- most recently in the case of Japanese semiconductors being dumped in world markets. "He took these steps as a last resort, only after carefully analyzing all the contingencies on a case by case basis and only after determining that such actions would open markets to American exports", he said. Yeutter said it would be foolish to attempt to solve the U.S. trade deficit by focusing on trade policy alone. He added that the trade deficit was created primarily by macroeconomic policy shortcomings here and abroad. Reuter 
IRAQ CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES SWITCHED - USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has transferred 21.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrs for sales of oilseeds to increase available coverage on sales of U.S. poultry meat to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the action was taken at the request of Iraq's State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs. The guarantee line for sales of corn has been reduced from 78.0 mln dlrs to 57.0 mln and the line for oilseeds from 5.0 mln dlrs to zero. The guarantee line for sales of frozen poultry has been increased from 30.0 mln dlrs to 56.0 mln dlrs, USDA said. Reuter 
HONDURAS SEEKING PL-480 VESSELS FOR BULK WHEAT

Honduras will tender April 13 under Public Law 480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to deliver approximately 52,500 tonnes of various wheats in bulk, an agent for the country said. The agent said deliveries of northern spring/dns wheat will include laydays of July 1-10 for 7,500-9,500 tonnes, August 1-10 for 8,000-10,000 tonnes, and September 15-25 for 12,500-14,500 tonnes. Deliveries of hard red winter wheat will have laydays of June 20-30 for 5,000-7,000 tonnes, July 15-25 for 6,500-8,500 tonnes, and September 15-25 for 7,000-9,000 tonnes. Offers are due by 1200 hrs EDT, April 13, and will remain valid until the close of business April 14, the agent said. Reuter 
BRAZIL SETS UP SPECIAL DEBT COMMISSION

Brazil has set up a special debt commission, headed by Finance Minister Dilson Funaro, to be responsible for renegotiating Brazil's 109 billion dollar foreign debt, officials said. The principal negotiator on the commission, created by President Jose Sarney, will be former foreign minister Ramiro Saraiva Guerreiro. Officials said Guerreiro would be joined on the commission by eight senior officials, including a representative of the National Security Council. The creation of the commission is intended to underscore the Brazilian government's contention that the debt issue is essentially political and that a political solution must be found to the problem. On February 20 Brazil suspended interest payments on its 68 billion dollar foreign bank debt to try to force the issue. Creditor banks, however, have signalled that they are equally determined to resist Brazil's demands for debt relief. Yesterday Funaro travelled to the United States for fresh debt negotiations with creditors deeply angered by Brasilia's suspension of interest payments. Funaro was due to hold talks in New York today with the private sector, before travelling to Washington for the semi- annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Officials said the new commission would start work in earnest when Funaro returns from the United States. Yesterday Funaro called for a new forum for discussion of the foreign debt. He suggested direct participation of the governments of creditor countries in debt talks. In negotiations on commercial debt, talks have traditionally been restricted to banks. The creation of the new commission brings Brazil's highly professional Foreign Ministry much more into the forefront on the debt issue than it has been in the past. During the period of military rule, which ended in 1985, the Foreign Ministry played a very minor role in debt policy. But the new commission has diplomats among its members and the chief negotiator, Saraiva Guerreiro, is a seasoned envoy with a long diplomatic career. Reuter 
MAGMA LOWERS COPPER PRICE 0.50 CT TO 65.50 CTS

Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is lowering its copper cathode price by 0.50 cent to 65.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
CCC CREDITS FOR BANGLADESH AMENDED - USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has reallocated 5.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. wheat to provide coverage for sales of U.S. vegetable oil to Bangladesh, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. USDA said the action was taken at the request of the Bangladesh government and reduces the guarantee line authorized for wheat sales from 25.0 mln dlrs to 20.0 and creates a new line of 5.0 mln dlrs for vegetable oils. To be eligible for coverage under the CCC's Intermediate Export Credit Program, credit terms must be in excess of three years, but not more than seven years. All sales covered by the credit guarantees must be registered and shipped by September 30, 1987, USDA said. Reuter 
CCC SEED CREDIT GURANTEES FOR ALGERIA - USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has authorized 2.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to cover sales of seeds for planting to Algeria, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the additional guarantees increase the cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria to 466.0 mln dlrs. To be eligible under the new seed credit guarantees, all sales must be registered by September 30, 1987, and shipped by December 31, 1987, USDA said. Reuter 
USDA ANNOUNCES WORLD MARKET RICE PRICES

The U.S. Agriculture Department announced the following prevailing world market prices of rice on a loan-rate basis, with previous prices -- -- Long grain whole kernels 5.87 cts per lb vs 5.70 -- Medium grain whole kernels 5.28 cts per lb vs 5.12 -- Short grain whole kernels 5.22 cts per lb vs 5.06 -- Broken kernels 2.94 cts per lb vs 2.85 The repayment rate for 1986-crop warehouse or farm-stored rice loans are the higher of the world price or 50 pct of the loan rate of 7.20 dlrs per cwt. The prices will remain in effect for a week, but new prices could be announced earlier if warranted, USDA said. Reuter 
BERMUDA STAR <BSL> LEASES VESSEL

Bermuda Star Line Inc said it has leased a 23,500 ton passenger vessel from Orley Shipping Co Inc, of Liberia for a term with options extending for 15 years. The vessel, SS Liberte, will be renamed the Canadian Star and will be used for cruises to Montreal from New York, beginning in June. Orley SHipping is partially owned by Common Brothers PLC, a U.K. maritime firm which owns 60 pct of Bermuda Star's shares and arranged debt financing for the ship's purchase. Orley acquired the vessel from Banstead Shipping Ltd. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 
SUN <SUN> RAISES HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE

Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketing Co subsidiary said it raised the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor by 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today. The increase brings the contract barge price to 50.50 cts a gallon, Sun said. Reuter 
U.S. CONSUMER CREDIT ROSE 1.77 BILLION DLRS IN FEB VS REVISED 789 MLN JAN GAIN



TREASURY BALANCES AT FED ROSE ON APRIL 6

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve rose on April 6 to 4.262 billion dlrs from 3.876 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 4.950 billion dlrs from 5.004 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 9.212 billion dlrs on April 6 compared with 8.880 billion dlrs on April 3. Reuter 
U.S. FEB CONSUMER CREDIT ROSE 1.77 BILLION DLRS

U.S. consumer instalment credit rose a seasonally adjusted 1.77 billion dlrs in February after a revised rise of 789 mln dlrs in January, the Federal Reserve Board said. The annual rate of growth in February was 3.7 pct, up from 1.6 pct in January. Previously the Fed said consumer credit rose 536 mln dlrs in January. Among the credit categories, auto credit rose in February by 717 mln dlrs after increasing 416 mln dlrs in January, the Fed said. Revolving credit in February rose 1.04 billion dlrs after falling by 23 mln dlrs in January. Mobile home credit was down by 59 mln dlrs in February after rising 141 mln dlrs in January. The category referred to as "other," covering bank and credit union loans, increased by 74 mln dlrs in February after rising by 255 mln dlrs in January, the Fed said. Before seasonal adjustment, consumer credit outstanding totaled 576.05 billion dlrs at the end of February, compared with 530.41 billion dlrs at the end of February, 1986. Reuter 
YEUTTER OPPOSES U.S. RETALIATORY POWER TRANSFER

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said President Reagan should have the authority and responsibility for deciding if and when to award import relief. "As the only nationally-elected official in the government, only the president can weigh all the factors that go into determining whether or not it is in the national economic interest to do so," he said in a prepared address to the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. Yeutter was commenting on proposed changes in the law which would transfer to the trade representative much of the current retaliatory power held by the White House, which has been the target of congressional dissatisfaction on trade issues. Reuter 
YEUTTER CALLS TEXTILE BILL "PURE PROTECTIONISM"

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said a textile bill, widely expected to be offered as an amendment to trade legislation on the House or Senate floor, is "pure protectionism." "Its attachment to a trade bill would kill the bipartisan, cooperative spirit needed to produce growth-oriented, market-opening legislation," he said in a speech prepared for the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. President Reagan vetoed that bill last year and would almost certainly reject this year's bill, he added. "We simply cannot accept legislation that would provoke retaliation against American exporters, destroy the Uruguay Round, and embroil us in dozens of trade wars," the trade representative said. Reuter 
BRAZIL'S DEBT CRISIS BECOMING POLITICAL CRISIS

Brazil's financial crisis is rapidly becoming a political and social crisis, and President Jose Sarney faces increasingly serious questions about his future. As Brazil enters debt talks with creditors in the United States this week, political analysts say Sarney's administration has never appeared weaker. The full political price which Sarney will have to pay for the failure of the much-vaunted anti-inflation Cruzado Plan is still not clear. He might have to pay with the presidency. Calls are increasing for direct presidential elections to pick a successor to Sarney early next year. The length of his term will be decided by a Constituent Assembly, and Sarney has been lobbying for a six-year term. Sarney came to power, without facing presidential elections, in March 1985, when the military bowed out after 21 years of rule. Although there was wide public support for direct elections for president, the military as one of their last acts, insisted an electoral college, where it felt it had more influence, make the choice. The college chose Tancredo Neves, a popular politician who headed the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB), which had opposed military rule. In part to smooth relations with the military, Neves chose Sarney, a supporter of the generals, for the purely ceremonial post of vice-president. But Neves died before he could take office and Sarney took power. He won the grudging support of the PMDB and the Cruzado Plan was wildly popular with inflation-weary Brazilians. But the Cruzado Plan failed and politics in Brazil has not been the same. "The country is a rudderless ship," said a U.S. Diplomat, echoing a common view that the government lacks any clear idea of how to tackle the economic crisis. Sarney has appeared increasingly isolated, with criticism coming from the business community, the trade unions, some of the military, the media and political opponents. Many businessmen are unhappy with Sarney's decision announced on February 20 to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of foreign debt. A motor industry executive said: "The business community thinks Brazil should go to the IMF. Their rules are sometimes harsh and strict, but this is the only way to put the house in order." Trade unions generally support the debt moratorium, but disagree with other aspects of government policy. Since the end of February they have organized national strikes of seamen, bankworkers and federal university teachers and countless local stoppages and protests. Economic problems have prompted criticism from some military figures, including the last army ruler, General Joao Figueiredo. It is a sign of the times that almost daily military men deny there is going to be a coup. If the army does stay in the barracks, the key arbitors of Sarney's fate will be the PMDB's leaders. So far, they have not taken a clear stand on the issue of direct elections. But one PMDB leader, Senator Affonso Camargo, pointedly said yesterday that it was the sovereign right of the Consituent Assembly to call direct elections for the presidency whenever it wished. In the media, Sarney has to contend with strong criticism. One senior political commentator, Fernando Pedreira of the Jornal do Brasil, wrote in the newspaper last week: "President Sarney is ... a man of good intentions, but it is just possible that he himself is not aware of the true state of the country and the people since the immense failure of the Cruzado Plan. "The disappointment, the frustration, the irritation, the enticement have been (and continue to be) too great, too profound."He called for direct elections early in 1988 as the only way out of the present crisis. One of Sao Paulo's leading news magazines, Senhor, said in an editorial this week: "The anarcho-populist government of President Jose Sarney has failed. Two years have already been too long for such a disastrous experience. "It deserves to be buried as quickly as possible. The natural solution: direct elections soon." The government's inability to control inflation is now bringing with it serious social problems. An explosion in rents in Sao Paulo has thrown tens of thousands of families onto the streets because they can no longer afford to pay even for a wooden shack in the slums. The local press says the city is experiencing the biggest wave of land invasions in its history. According to rental agencies, rents have increased 500 pct in little more than a year. Even the cheapest shacks now cost 2,000 cruzados (90 dollars) a month, half as much again as the minimum wage, which is all that many earn. Cardinal Paulo Evaristo Arns, the Roman Catholic archbishop of Sao Paulo, warned yesterday of the possibility of "a social conflict of unimaginable proportions." With his back to the wall politically and with social tensions rising, Sarney is no position to compromise on debt. Reuter 
NYFE TO MOVE TO N.Y. COTTON EXCHANGE

The New York Futures Exchange will move its trading operations to the floor of the New York Cotton Exchange, NYFE president Lewis J. Horowitz and Cotton Exchange president Joseph O'Neill announced. NYFE will become an affiliate of the Cotton Exchange through a licensing agreement while remaining a wholly-owned subsidiary of the New York Stock Exchange. NYFE's trading floor and floor support staff will move to the Cotton Exchange, which is located in the Commodity Exchange Center at Four World Trade Center. The move should be completed by the first quarter of next year, a Cotton Exchange spokeswoman said. The plan was approved today by the board of the Cotton Exchange and previously by the New York Stock Exchange. The move will offer traders from both exchanges access to each other's contracts. Cotton exchange members will have trading rights to NYFE's New York Stock Exchange composite index futures and options contracts and its Commodity Research Bureau Index contract. NYFE members will have the opportunity to trade the Cotton Exchange's U.S. dollar index futures and options contracts and its European Currency Unit futures contract. They will not have trading rights to cotton and frozen concentrated orange juice futures. Reuter 
YEUTTER BLAMES OVERPRODUCTION FOR TRADE PROBLEMS

Over-investment and over-production are at the root of many of the difficult trade issues that have soured relations between the United States and some of its major trading partners, trade representative Clayton Yeutter said. He told a conference, held by the University of Chicago's Graduate Business School, that much of this was caused by governments "getting their finger in the pot." Yeutter referred specifically to the problems of agricultural trade, where subsidized exports have been a point of contention most notably between the United States and the European Community. "Think of the vast waste of financial and other resources," he said. Yeutter said much of the problem underlying the dispute with Japan over semiconductors was due to overproduction. The trade representative called for a long-term approach to international trade and said the recent commitment to a free-trade agreement between the United States and Canada was a step in the right direction. There's a lot of work to be done in the next six months, but we have set October 1 as a target date for an agreement to be reached, he added. "We're trying to create an environment that will facilitate and foster free and open trade in the world," he said. Reuter 



GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND

There were six grain ships loading and six ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter 
SUPPLIES, MIDEAST TENSION FUEL GAINS IN OIL

Petroleum futures rallied today in a market that was expecting declines in domestic supplies and became further unsettled by escalated Mideast fighting. Crude oil, gasoline and heating oil all posted gains on the New York Mercantile Exchange, with crude oil prices matching life-of-contract highs. Crude for delivery in May closed 17 cents higher at 18.84 dlrs a barrel. "Crude futures could jump above 19 dlrs a barrel but will not remain there long if products are not strong," Robert Murphy, account executive at E.F. Hutton, said. Traders said prices were supported by anticipation that the American Petroleum Institute would report a decline in domestic inventories of petroleum products in a weekly report. Traders said prices also were supported by an escalation in the Iran-Iraq war, with the Iranians reportedly launching a new offensive against Iraqi positions, and Iraq attacking offshore oil fields and an oil export depot. Buying by speculators continued to prompt gains in gold and silver futures on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Gold prices retreated at midday, but rallied before the close with support from the silver market, which was approaching two-year highs, traders said. Soybean futures posted strong gains on the Chicago Board of Trade, while corn and wheat were mostly higher. Traders said cash sales have been slow in the country, and the soybean harvest in Brazil has been delayed by rain, which is limiting supplies. In addition, the Agriculture Department last week projected a substantial drop in soybean acreage this year. Monday's report that the USDA inspected 46 mln bushels of corn for export last week was unexpectedly high and, coupled with a lack of farm sales, provided support for the corn market, traders said. Live hogs and frozen pork bellies rallied on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, while cattle ended lower. Live hogs pushed ahead on a lack of supplies because many farmers are turning their attention to spring planting rather than marketing livestock, traders said, noting that cash sales have been lighter than expected this week. The lack of marketing also has supported pork bellies, but prices drifted lower for moderate losses in nearby months as speculators sold contracts to take profits, traders said. Cattle prices closed lower but continued to show strength related to tight supplies. Prices pushed ahead to new contract highs, extending gains past three-year peaks set Monday, as tight supplies forced meat packers to bid aggressively for available animals. However, some traders sold contracts to take profits after the extended rally, which has seen the April delivery contract soar to 69.90 cents a pound from 56 cents a pound at the start of the year. New York coffee futures closed higher on trade talk Brazil would not be an aggressive seller near term, analysts said. Reuter 



SOUTHERN TEXAS GRAIN DIFFERENTIALS ADJUSTED

Posted county prices in 99 southern Texas counties have been changed to reflect only one market differential instead of the usual two-terminal market pricing system, a senior Agriculture Department official said. Interior grain and soybean prices in the affected counties will now be based solely against the Texas Gulf. Prior to the change, county prices were also priced against the Amarillo market. The changes were made to better reflect local market conditions, said Ralph Klopfenstein, deputy administrator for commodity operations at USDA. "The Texas Gulf has always been the dominant market in those counties. Amarillo never became effective for that area," Klopfenstein told Reuters. Reuter 



YEUTTER OPPOSES U.S. RETALIATORY POWER TRANSFER

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said President Reagan should have the authority and responsibility for deciding if and when to award import relief. "As the only nationally-elected official in the government, only the president can weigh all the factors that go into determining whether or not it is in the national economic interest to do so," he said in a prepared address to the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. Yeutter was commenting on proposed changes in the law which would transfer to the trade representative much of the current retaliatory power held by the White House, which has been the target of congressional dissatisfaction on trade issues. Reuter 
YEUTTER CALLS TEXTILE BILL "PURE PROTECTIONISM"

U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said a textile bill, widely expected to be offered as an amendment to trade legislation on the House or Senate floor, is "pure protectionism." "Its attachment to a trade bill would kill the bipartisan, cooperative spirit needed to produce growth-oriented, market-opening legislation," he said in a speech prepared for the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business. President Reagan vetoed that bill last year and would almost certainly reject this year's bill, he added. "We simply cannot accept legislation that would provoke retaliation against American exporters, destroy the Uruguay Round, and embroil us in dozens of trade wars," the trade representative said. Reuter 
YEUTTER BLAMES OVERPRODUCTION FOR TRADE PROBLEMS

Over-investment and over-production are at the root of many of the difficult trade issues that have soured relations between the United States and some of its major trading partners, trade representative Clayton Yeutter said. He told a conference, held by the University of Chicago's Graduate Business School, that much of this was caused by governments "getting their finger in the pot." Yeutter referred specifically to the problems of agricultural trade, where subsidized exports have been a point of contention most notably between the United States and the European Community. "Think of the vast waste of financial and other resources," he said. Yeutter said much of the problem underlying the dispute with Japan over semiconductors was due to overproduction. The trade representative called for a long-term approach to international trade and said the recent commitment to a free-trade agreement between the United States and Canada was a step in the right direction. There's a lot of work to be done in the next six months, but we have set October 1 as a target date for an agreement to be reached, he added. "We're trying to create an environment that will facilitate and foster free and open trade in the world," he said. Reuter 
EGYPT SAID TO CANCEL PL480 SOFT WHEAT TENDER

Egypt has cancelled its Export Bonus tender for 200,000 tonnes of soft red winter wheat for May-June shipment after failing to bid a price acceptable to USDA, private export sources said. Reuter 
DOE RECOMMENDS SPECIAL UNIT TO ENRICH URANIUM

Energy Secretary John Herrington told Congress that a federally chartered corporation would be the best way to manage and operate the government's uranium enrichment program. He said in a letter to Congressmen that unless the program, now run by the Energy Department, is improved, sales worth five billion dlrs could be lost between 1990 and 2000. The program now has annual commercial sales of about one billion dlrs and holds 50 pct of the free world market for enrichment services. A department official said the world market for enriched uranium for reactors for power utilities is increasingly competitive and private entity could better tap it. The Administration's plan to spin off the department's uranium enrichment operation is in line with it effort to reduce the federal government's role in areas where it feels private enterprise could be more efficient. reuter 
JORDAN BOOSTS BIDS IN EXPORT BONUS WHEAT TENDER

Jordan has boosted its bids for U.S. soft and hard wheat under Export Bonus, private export sources said. Jordan today bid 74 dlrs per tonne for soft wheat and 75 dlrs per tonne for hard red winter wheat in its tender for 225,000 tonnes of hard and soft wheat for April through November shipment. Earlier today, USDA rejected its bids of 70 dlrs for both varieties, they said. Reuter 
MOROCCO TENDERS THURSDAY FOR PL 480 WHEAT

Morocco will tender Thursday for 120,000 to 210,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat, cheapest variety preferred, for May and June shipments under PL 480, private export sources said. The tender will consist of three lots of up to 70,000 tonnes each for shipment May 1-30, May 10-June 10, and May 25-June 25, they said. Reuter 
BAKER, VOLCKER MEET WEST GERMAN OFFICIALS

Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker held a meeting with senior West German monetary officials, including Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg, Volcker said. Volcker emerged after two-hours in the Treasury building but declined to comment on the subjects they discussed. Stoltenberg, accompanied by other senior West German officials attending the spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund, left the Treasury without speaking to reporters. Reuter 
API SAYS DISTILLATE, GASOLINE STOCKS UP IN WEEK

Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage rose by 628,000 barrels in the week ended April three to 106.96 mln barrels from a revised 106.33 mln the previous week, the American Petroleum Institute said. In its weekly statistical bulletin, the oil industry trade group said gasoline stocks rose 2.29 mln barrels to 247.91 mln barrels from a revised 245.62 mln, and crude oil stocks were up 8.52 mln barrels to 337.73 mln from a revised 329.21 mln. It said residual fuel stocks rose 28,000 barrels to 38.25 mln from a revised 37.98 mln barrels. API said refinery runs in the week rose to 12.54 mln barrels per day from 12.21 mln and refinery use of operating capacity was 80.4 pct, up from 78.3 pct. Crude oil imports in the week fell to 3.40 mln bpd from a revised 3.60 mln, API added. Reuter 
TAP AIR PORTUGAL SIGNS CONTRACT FOR AIRBUS

TAP Air Portugal said it signed a contract for three <Airbus Industrie> A310-300 aircraft, confirming a commitment made in January. Air Portugal said it has taken options on two further aircraft which may be either A310-300s or A340s. Reuter 
CANADIANS URGE EXEMPTION FROM U.S. TRADE BILL

A group of Canadian lawmakers from Ontario today asked their U.S. counterparts to exempt Canada from the mandatory trade retaliation provisions in a major trade bill being considered by the U.S. Congress. At a meeting of the Northeast-Midwest Coalition, an organization of U.S. legislators, David Cooke, chairman of the Ontario Parliament's Select Committee on Economic Affairs, said the exemption would help trade relations. The trade legislation to be considered by the full House in late April would require President Reagan to retaliate against foreign unfair trade practices unless the trade actions would harm the U.S. economy. Currently, Reagan can reject trade sanctions on any grounds. Cooke, a member of the Liberal party, told the U.S. congressmen, "I can understand (the trade bill). I think it has to do with concerns you have with the other parts of the world." "I would suggest to you that we are your best friends. You do not have those concerns with Canada and you should sincerely consider exempting our country from that bill," he added. Canada is the United States' largest trading partner, with two-way trade more than 113 billion dlrs in 1985, according to the coalition. But the U.S. ran up a 23 billion dlr deficit in manufactured goods that year compared to a 14 billion dlr surplus in services trade with its neighbour. Reuter 
SENATE REPORT - REAGAN PLANS EARLY SDI DEPLOYMENT

The Reagan administration is secretly developing plans for an early deployment of President Reagan's controversial "Star Wars" anti-missile system, according to a Senate study. "Near-term deployment is an absurd and dangerous course for America," said Sen. Bennett Johnston in a statement issued with the report. "It would force us to break the bank, throw out the ABM treaty and commit us to an arms race in space." The Reagan administration is engaged in an internal debate over the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), as the land and space-based anti-missile system is called, and may decide later this month to reinterpret the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty to justify an acceleration of SDI research to include development and space testing. Johnston, of Louisiana, and fellow Democrat William Proxmire of Wisconsin, whose staff prepared the report, accused the administration of covertly seeking early deployment as a political ploy to commit the United States to strategic defenses even after Reagan leaves office in 1989. "This report exposes the fact that without a presidential directive or congressional consent, the SDI program ... is being changed to pursue a near-term deployment of strategic defenses," Proxmire, chairman of the powerful Senate Appropriations Defense Subcommittee, said. "In other words, they're covertly reorienting the SDI program without congressional approval." Reuter 
RUDING SAYS BANKS, DEBTORS SHOULD TAKE LEAD

Dutch Finance Minister Onno Ruding said there was a growing feeling in the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund that commercial banks and debtor countries should take a greater lead in assembling new financing packages. "The IMF and the Bank may be less inclined to put together large packages like Mexico," Ruding told reporters in a briefing on this week's semi-annual IMF and World Bank talks. Ruding, who is also chairman of the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee, said he was reflecting a feeling within the two institutions. Asked whether his comments reflected a feeling the institutions were being unduly pressured by the Reagan administration, Ruding replied "we should not go in the direction of politicisation of the two institutions." Ruding said "no country large or small should push in that direction." He said he expected commercial bank lending to debtors to come in for some criticism for the slow pace of lending recently. Ruding also said he did not expect any major initiatives to develop a larger commercial bank role in the debt strategy or any new proposals for dealing with the debt crisis itself. In other remarks, Ruding said many countries supported a General Capital Increase for the World Bank and he expected Bank president Barber Conable also to express his support. The U.S. has said it is opposed to a GCI at present. Ruding said the Interim Committee Communique would support the use of indicators to assist multilateral surveillance but would stop short of supporting U.S. proposals for automatic consultations if indicators were sharply out of line with policy objectives. Monetary sources say the U.S. has suggested establishing "norms" or automatic triggers for consultations among industrial states if policies deviate from plan. Currently the plan also has the support of France, the Netherlands and Italy while Britain, Japan and West Germany are all opposed. Reuter 
CURRENCY FUTURES TO KEY OFF G-5, G-7 MEETINGS

News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7 finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be key to the direction of currency futures at the International Monetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyond the Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financial analysts said. "If they (the finance ministers) give the market something really new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyond the Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in the dollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills. On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to be bearish for the dollar," Mills said. Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of the Paris accord will not be enough to halt the decline in the dollar, nor will central bank intervention. "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currencies and sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firm on the floor of the IMM. "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be looking to sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," he said. Technically, most currency futures are poised for another rise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane. Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract high on Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while June sterling set a new contract high on Monday. "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and you don't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said. In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloane recently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a range between 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangle on the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside. A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal a breakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearby Canadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the 0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday. Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentials between Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narrowed dramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bonds only about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes. What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is an increasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into the Canadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors. Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be near the top of their long-term rally. "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting to calm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics. The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major European currencies will trade, Horner said. But sterling futures may still make another run for new highs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on the positive atmosphere that will prevail before British elections and possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The June British pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday. Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range of the yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings. The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollar between 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152 yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar's range would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the June contract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday. If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we will have one more rally in the yen," Horner said. Reuter 
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth. In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit." He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route. Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth. He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament. But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said. Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home. "A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth," he said. Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway. But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy. The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments. "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful," he said. He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan's trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States. Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated. All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said. "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues," he said. But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER 
SRI LANKA GETS USDA APPROVAL FOR WHEAT PRICE

Food Department officials said the U.S. Department of Agriculture approved the Continental Grain Co sale of 52,500 tonnes of soft wheat at 89 U.S. Dlrs a tonne C and F from Pacific Northwest to Colombo. They said the shipment was for April 8 to 20 delivery. REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA MOVES TO SLOW GROWTH OF TRADE SURPLUS

South Korea's trade surplus is growing too fast and the government has started taking steps to slow it down, Deputy Prime Minister Kim Mahn-je said. He told a press conference the government planned to increase investment, speed up the opening of the local market to foreign imports and gradually adjust its currency to hold the surplus "at a proper level." But he said the government would not allow the won to appreciate too much in a short period of time. South Korea has been under pressure from Washington to revalue the won. The U.S. Wants South Korea to cut its trade surplus with the U.S., Which rose to 7.4 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3 billion dlrs in 1985. Kim, who is also economic planning minister, said prospects were bright for the South Korean economy, but the government would try to hold the current account surplus to around five billion dlrs a year for the next five years. "Our government projections of eight pct GNP growth, five billion dlrs of (current account) surplus and 12 pct growth in exports all seemed to be reasonable early this year. But now the surplus is growing faster than we expected," he said. Trade ministry officials said South Korea's exports rose 35 pct to 9.34 billion dlrs in the first three months of this year, while imports rose only 8.5 pct to 8.2 billion dlrs. Kim said the swing of South Korea's current account to a surplus of 4.65 billion dlrs in 1986 from an 890 mln dlr deficit in 1985 was very significant. The surplus enabled the country to reduce its foreign debt last year for the first time. South Korea's foreign debt, which fell to 44.5 billion dlrs in 1986 from 46.8 billion in 1985, is still among the largest in Asia. "This huge amount of our foreign debt has been one of the major constraints on our development... Last year was a major turning point for the Korean economy," Kim said. Kim said his government plannned to reduce the ratio of foreign debt to the country's GNP to about 20 pct in 1991, from about 50 pct in 1986. "The government, however, does not want to accelerate reducing the debt by making an excessive trade surplus," he said. Kim said a sudden rise in the surplus would cause inflation and lead to trade friction with Seoul's major trading partners, particularly the United States. "We need a surplus because we have to reduce our debt, but we are taking measures to hold the size of the surplus at a proper level," Kim said. REUTER 
FREEPORT TO START SULPHUR MINE IN PHILIPPINES

Freeport McMoran Inc <FTX.N>, a New York listed New Orleans-based natural resource, oil and gas company, is planning to build and run a surface sulphur mine in the central Philippines, a company statement said. It said Freeport officials were in the Philippines to discuss contractual arrangements with joint venture partner <International Consultex (Philippines) Inc>. The statement quoted Robert Foster, president of Freeport Sulphur Co, as saying the company was optimistic about the proposed mine at Pamplona in Negros Oriental province, as well as the country's investment climate. "The sulphur project will involve initial capital expenditures of between 50 and 100 mln dlrs depending upon the processing technology and the capacity of the project," Foster said. "We anticipate that the project may employ as many as 1,000 workers in Negros Oriental." Freeport-McMoran's senior vice-president Rene Latiolais said the company was also interested in gold and other precious metals and geo-thermal energy development in the Philippines. The statement said Freeport, which anticipates 1987 sales of 1.5 billion dlrs, is a major producer of sulphur, phosphate and nitrogen fertilisers, uranium oxide and geo-thermal energy. REUTER 
MOSCOW INDIGNANT AT REAGAN STATEMENT

Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Petrovsky said today Moscow felt "indignation and regret" at what he called "truly hostile statements about the Soviet Union" made by President Reagan. Reagan told reporters yesterday he was ordering a high-level review of security at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow following a sex-and-spy scandal there and said Soviet diplomats would not be allowed to use a new embassy in Washington until the U.S. Moscow mission was made secure. Petrovsky told reporters it was not accidental that Washington had chosen this time, only a week before a scheduled Moscow visit by U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz, to make accusations against the Soviet Union. Objective conditions existed for improving Soviet-U.S. Relations. "But it seems that someone in Washington fails to appreciate this process and tries to poison the atmosphere," he said. Reuter 
MALAYSIAN FUND TO BE LAUNCHED IN U.S. IN MAY

The first Malaysian investment fund for foreign investors will be launched in the United States market next month to raise between 60 to 69 mln dlrs, <Arab Malaysian Merchant Bank Bhd> (AMBB) said. The fund, called <Malaysian Fund Inc>, will be jointly sponsored by the merchant bank and the International Fund Corporation of the World Bank, said AMBB in a statement. The two institutions, together with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets <MER> and Morgan Stanley Inc <MS>, are underwriters for the fund, it added. AMBB said its wholly-owned subsidiary <Arab Malaysian Consultant> will be the fund's Malaysian investment adviser while <Morgan Stanley Asset Management Inc> will manage it. It added that 80 pct of the money raised will be used to invest in shares of Malaysian companies on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange and the remaining in unlisted shares. AMBB said the fund will expose the Malaysian market to US and Japanese investors and help develop the local capital market. REUTER 
POEHL WARNS AGAINST FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said a weaker dollar would be risky and a further appreciation of the mark would damage prospects for sustained West German economic growth. In a speech to the Institute of Contempory German Affairs here, Poehl said "It would be an extremely risky policy to aim for a further substantial decline in the value of the dollar to correct the trade deficit." He said the United States could face a vicious circle of depreciation, inflation and more depreciation if it took that route. Poehl noted West Germany had already taken steps to meet U.S. Demands for greater stimulation of its domestic economy, accelerating tax cuts, cutting interest rates and tolerating above-target money supply growth. He said he would have been happy to have brought forward five billion marks of tax cuts now planned for January 1988 to the beginning of this year, but he said the government faced political constraints getting such measures through the upper house of the West German parliament. But there were also limits to the impact West Germany could accept on exports from a rising mark, he said. Poehl said West Germany relied on exports for about one-third of its gross national product, so a substantial erosion of export markets could not be offset by increasing demand at home. "A further appreciation of the mark could even be an obstacle to further growth," he said. Poehl said the Bundesbank had tolerated rapid money supply growth last year because the country enjoyed low inflation and because external factors, including low oil prices and favourable terms of trade, had given some extra leeway. But Poehl said West Germany now faced a difficult dilemma over monetary policy. The underlying rate of inflation was now two pct, not the reported negative inflation rates last year, and West Germany was affected more than before by exchange rate developments. "For the time being, we will have to focus our policy more on the external side, and we can live with a more expansionary money supply. But we must be very careful," he said. He said he shared some of the U.S. Concern about Japan's trade surpluses, which affected European countries as well as the United States. Poehl welcomed the so-called Louvre accord of monetary officials of major industrialized countries, saying the importance of the February 22 agreement to stabilize exchange rates had been underestimated. All partners had agreed that the dollar was at about the right level, and that further changes would damage growth, he said. "This was a remarkable change in attitude, especially on the part of our American colleagues," he said. But he said there was still a danger that the correction of the dollar's value could overshoot. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG SEES MOVES TO STRENGTHEN PARIS ACCORD

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said today's meetings of major industrial countries would look at ways of strengthening the Paris accord on stabilizing foreign exchange rates. Stoltenberg told journalists he saw no fundamental weakness of the February 22 agreement of the Group of Five countries and Canada to keep exchange rates near the then-current levels. But he declined to say what measures would be discussed ahead of a communique of the Group of Seven ministers later today. Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said the importance of the Paris agreement, also known as the Louvre accord, had been underestimated. Stoltenberg said there is greater agreement now among major countries than six months ago, at the time of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, marked by sharp discord between the United States and its major trading partners. "There is no fundamental weakness of the Paris accord," he said. "We will be looking at ways of strengthening it, but I do not want to discuss that here. Stoltenberg said the Louvre agreement was working despite a "slight firming" of the yen against the dollar. And Poehl noted that the dollar/mark parity was unchanged since February 22 without the Bundesbank having had to sell marks to support the dollar. "The Louvre agreement has been honored by the market," he said. Poehl said West Germany had lived up to its side of the bargain in Paris by preparing the way for tax cuts to be accelerated as a way of stimulating growth. Poehl said, however, that Japan had not yet fulfilled its pledges for economic stimulation. "And we will have to see if the United States is able to do what they promised in Paris on reducing the budget deficit -- and get it through Congress," he added. Stoltenberg reiterated West German concern about a further fall in the dollar, noting that the mark was up 85 pct against the dollar and nearly 20 pct on a trade-weighted basis. "You cannot expect that to go unnoticed in an economy. And it is not just a German problem, it is a European problem," he said. REUTER 
SUN <SUN> CUTS HEATING OIL BARGE PRICE

Sun Co's Sun Refining and Marketing Co subsidiary said it is decreasing the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in ny harbor by 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today. The 0.50 cent a gallon price reduction brings Sun's heating oil contract barge price to 50 cts a gallon, the company said. Reuter 
TOP OFFICIALS ARRIVE AT TREASURY FOR G-5 TALKS

Top officials of leading industrial nations arrived at the U.S. Treasury main building to begin a meeting of the Group of Five. Officials seen arriving by Reuter correspondents included West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl, French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur and his central banker Jacques de Larosiere. Also seen arriving were Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and Japan's central bank governor Satoshi Sumita and British Chancellor of the Exchequer and central bank governor Robin Leigh Pemberton. There was no immediate sign of Italian or Canadian officials. Monetary sources have said a fully blown meeting of the Group of Seven is expected to begin around 3 p.m. local time (1900 gmt) and last at least until 6 p.m. (2200 gmt), when a communique is expected to be issued. Italian sources said Italian acting Finance Minister Giovanni Goria met Treasury Secretary James Baker last night. At those talks Baker apparently convinced Goria, who declined to attend the February meeting of the Group of Seven in Paris, that Italy would participate fully in any meaningful decisions. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. Economists expect the Fed to execute 2.0-2.5 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset pressures from the end of the two-week bank reserve maintenance period today. Some also look for a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal pressures via an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon. The Federal funds rate opened at 6-3/8 pct and remained at that level, up from yesterday's 6.17 pct average. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA OVERNIGHT REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange overnight System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
HONDURAS SEEKING PL-480 BULK WHEAT APRIL 13

Honduras will tender April 13 under Public Law 480 for approximately 52,500 tonnes of various wheats in bulk, an agent for the country said. The agent said Honduras is seeking U.S. no. 2 or better northern spring/DNS, with 14 pct protein minimum and 13 pct moisture maximum, and U.S. no. 2 or better hard red winter, with 12 pct protein minimum and 13 pct moisture maximum. The agent said NS/DNS laydays include July 1-10 for 7,500-9,500 tonnes, Aug 1-10 for 8,000-10,000 tonnes, and Sept 15-25 for 12,500-14,500 tonnes. HRW laydays include June 20-30 on 5,000-7,000 tonnes, July 15-25 for 6,500-8,500 tonnes, and September 15-25 for 7,000-9,000 tonnes. Offers are due by 1550 hrs EDT, April 13, and will remain valid until 1000 hrs EDT, April 14, the agent said. Reuter 
MILLER SAYS REAGAN WILL REJECT TAX INCREASE

Office of Management and Budget Director James Miller said President Reagan will reject the tax increase called for in the House Budget Committee's 1988 budget proposal which is before the House for a vote today. "It's just completely unacceptable," Miller told a House Appropriations subcommittee on Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations. The plan, drafted by the Democratic-controlled Budget committee, calls for 22 billion dlrs in higher revenues, of which 18 billion would be from new taxes set by the tax-writing committees. The House committee's budget proposal includes some increases in federal user fees as well as 18 billion dlrs in taxes. Miller warned that failure to reduce the federal deficit would jeopardize the U.S. economy. "If we do not further reduce the deficit... we place this economic expansion that we've had in the last five years at risk," Miller told the subcommittee. "The result of any kind of tax increase would be to increase substantially the prospects that the expansion would come to an end," Miller said. Reuter 
CME ADDS COMPLIANCE CHIEF, EXPANDS SURVEILLANCE

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CME, said it has added a new chief compliance officer and will expand its regulatory surveillance program. Paul O'Kelly, currently assistant regional administrator of the Securities and Exchange Commission, was named vice-president of compliance for the exchange, the CME said. The expanded compliance program, which calls for an increase in the exchange's compliance budget and addition of staff, was in response to recent criticisms that the CME's current surveillance was not able to keep up with increased demands of recent volatility and volume, the CME said. The new surveillance program calls for the addition of three floor investigators and five compliance investigators, the CME said. Some of the new staff will monitor the exchange's new Computerized Trade Reconstruction system, scheduled to start July 1. In addition, three computer programmers will be added to assist in regulatory support for the exchange's management information system department. Recent criticism has been especially directed at the CME's Standard and Poor's stock index futures and options division. A special membership referendum to prohibit CME members from filling customer orders and trading for their own account in S and P 500 futures and options will be voted on April 13. In a letter dated March 12, CME chairman John Sandner and Executive committee chairman Leo Melamed urged members to reject the referendum in favor a series of new rules. Included in the rule changes was the requirement that futures brokers in the S and P pit manually record all personal trades to the nearest minute, intended to "enhance the effectiveness of surveillance and compliance functions," "We made a promise to our members that we have kept," Melamed said in a release today. He said the new surveillance program "represents a commitment to a vigorous enforcement policy." Reuter 
AMEX LISTS RED LION INNS <RED>

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has listed Red Lion Inns LP, which went public today. The initial trade of the partnership units was at 19.75 dlrs, it said. Reuter 
THIRD U.S. MARINE ARRESTED IN SPY SCANDAL

A third Marine has been arrested on suspicion of espionage in a growing sex-spy scandal involving security at both the U.S. Embassy in Moscow and the American Consulate in Leningrad, the Pentagon said. Sgt. John Joseph Weirick, 26, was arrested yesterday in California and jailed for questioning on suspicion of espionage while he served as a guard at the U.S. consulate in Leningrad for a year beginning in October, 1981, Pentagon spokesman Robert Sims said. Two other Marines were earlier charged with espionage at the Moscow Embassy and a third Marine, Staff Sgt. Robert Stufflebeam, was charged yesterday with failure to report contacts with Soviet women in Moscow, Sims told reporters. Reuter 
J.P. MORGAN<JPM> SAYS DLR MAY PREVENT FED EASING

The relatively high level of real U.S. interest rates suggests that there is scope for further declines in money market rates, but the Federal Reserve is unlikely to promote such a drop as long as the dollar remains volatile, said J.P. Morgan and Co Inc chairman Lewis Preston. He said in response to a reporter's question after the bank's annual meeting that money market rates could decline further but, "I don't think the Fed is going to encourage that as long as the exchange markets are as volatile as they are." On the other hand, he said that, barring a collapse of the dollar, he did not see rates going much higher. He said that Morgan's recent rise in its prime lending rate was "purely a reflection of an increase in a whole spectrum of rates." Preston reiterated earlier company forecasts that the U.S. economy should show roughly 2.5 to three pct real growth this year. He also said that as a consequence of the dollar's decline and oil price rises, inflation would rise "moderately" to a 3.5 to four pct rate in 1987. Reuter 
GROUP OF FIVE MEETING ENDS

A meeting of finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of Five ended after nearly three and a half hours. West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson declined to comment on the meeting as they emerged from the U.S. Treasury. A European monetary official said the ministers of the Group of Seven countries would gather at about three p.m. local (1900 GMT) at the Treasury. Reuter 
NASD SETS FILING DEADLINES FOR BROKERS/DEALERS

The National Association of Securities Dealers Inc said it set April 15 as the deadline for government securities brokers and dealers to submit applications for registration under new rules. It said the rules apply to unregulated brokers and dealers, who must be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission by July 25. NASD said it could guarantee brokers and dealers would meet the July 25 deadline if it received application materials by April 15. After April 15, it said it will make every effort to meet the July 25 deadline, but could not guarantee it. Reuter 
USDA TO PROPOSE FOREIGN MEAT INSPECTION RULE

The U.S. Agriculture Department is preparing a proposal that would require all foreign meat products to be inspected at their point of arrival in the United States, a USDA official said. Donald Houston, administrator of USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service, FSIS, told a House Agriculture subcommittee USDA was developing a proposed change in regulations that would put an end to the current practice of permitting foreign meat products to be unloaded at one port and inspected at another port. Houston said the requirement would be phased in over several years to "avoid disruptions and economic hardship." Reuter 
FED'S HELLER SAYS MONETARY GROWTH TO BE SLOWER

Robert Heller, a member of the Federal Reserve Board, said he expects "more modest levels" of growth in the money supply this year. "In my view, this would not only be a logical, but also a most desireable development," he said in a speech prepared for delivery to an economic forum at Chapman College in Orange, Calif. A text was released in Washington. He said the effect of lower inflation and financial deregulation on monetary aggregates was now largely finished. "Consequently, monetary growth may return to more modest levels," Heller said. He noted growth in the money supply slowed after mid-January. "I would not be surprised at all if the monetary aggregates were to grow rather slowly during the balance of the year as well," he added. Heller said there was a danger of renewed price inflation. "The pricing behavior of American producers in response to price increases of their foreign competitors will be crucial for our economic future," he said. Widespread domestic price rises in response to rising import prices would "generalize the inflationary forces emanating from the foreign trade sector" and might not gain more market share for U.S. producers. "A return to the stagflation of the late 1970s may well be the result of such a behavior pattern," Heller warned. He said "we at the Federal Reserve will have to be disciplined in our conduct of monetary policy." Heller said said the government should also exercise fiscal discipline and cut the deficit by spending restraint rather than new taxes. "The imposition of new taxes would tend to rekindle inflation and certainly would not make us more competitive in international markets," Heller said. He said the U.S. economy should expand by nearly three pct during 1987, aided by higher exports to Europe and Canada. A free trade agreement currently being negotiated with Canada "would be exceedingly helpful in allowing American producers to compete more effectively in that country," Heller said. Reuter 
U.S. MEAT, POULTRY INSPECTION CALLED FAULTY

The U.S. meat and poultry inspection programs are incapable of protecting consumers from contaminated products, groups representing inspectors and consumers charged. "The whole trend of inspection for the last 10 years has been to corrupt and to degrade the system where today the public is at constant risk to contaminated and adulterated meat," Kenneth Blaylock, president of the American Federation of Government Employees, told a House Agriculture subcommittee. "The American consumer has little reason to feel confident about the safety of meat and poultry being offered to him today," said Rodney Leonard, executive director of the Community Nutrition Institute. "Company management is less concerned about the risk to health than about raising plant output and company profits," Leonard told a hearing of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy and Poultry. Kenneth Morrison, staff associate at the Government Accountability Project, said inspectors consistently disclose violations of federal law, demonstrating a "serious breakdown in the entire inspection system." Morrison told of chicken fat for flavoring being contaminated by "intestines dragging in a water trough used to flush away the condemned product, fecal material, human spit, chewing gum and paper towels used by plant employees to blow their noses." Donald Houston, administrator of the U.S. Agriculture Department's Food Safety and Inspection Service, FSIS, defended the government's program, calling it "one of the most respected public health programs in the world." FSIS inspects an estimated 127 mln head of cattle and 4.5 billion chicken and turkeys every year. Houston said inspection programs have kept pace with change, but conceded that the danger of chemical residues in the meat and poultry supply has increased. He also said that, although he was confident the bacterium salmonella eventually could be eradicated, it would take time and much money to contain the growing problem. Salmonella, which in extreme cases can cause death, is found in approximately 37 pct of U.S. broilers, 12 pct of raw pork and three to five pct of raw beef, Houston said. The number of reported cases has doubled over the past 20 years, he said, to 40,000 cases annually. "We certainly really have not found an effective means of turning this disease around," said Rep. James Olin (D-Va.) The National Research Council recommended in 1985 that FSIS intensify efforts to develop rapid diagnostic procedures for detecting microoganisms. But the meat and poultry industries have said such controls would cost too much. "Hopefully we will not overreact by installing unnecessarily complicated procedures that may become obstacles to the real goal of providing an increasingly safer, more nutritious and economical meat supply for consumers," Stanley Emerling, executive vice president of the National Association of Meat Purveyors, said. Blaylock, speaking on behalf of food inspectors, said a new program allowing elimination of USDA inspection functions at certain plants "voids the law in letter and spirit, and must be repealed or we will see rising consumer fraud and an epidemic of death and illness for which there will be no prevention nor legal recourse." Subcommittee Chairman Charles Stenholm (D-Tex.) said the panel would hold a hearing on salmonella June 2. Reuter 
E.F. HUTTON <EFH> SETS FINANCES TELEPHONE DEAL

E.F. Hutton Group Inc said it is providing financing for the previously announced acquisition of <Virgin Islands Telephone Co> by <Atlantic Tele-Network Co>. Terms of the financing were not disclosed. Virgin Islands Telephone, which operates telephone systems in the U.S. Virgin Islands, handles about 1.5 mln local calls per week and one mln long-distance calls per month, the company said. Reuter 
GENERAL AUTOMATION <GENA> SETS JOINT VENTURE

General Automation Inc said it signed a joint venture with Madrid, Spain-based Ingenieria De Sistemas Electronics S.A. The pact establishes General Automation Iberica S.A. as a local manufacturer and master distributor of General Automation's ZEBRA multi-user business systems in Spain and Portugal. General Automation Iberica will be equally financed by General Automation and Ingenieria. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS EXPORT BID FOR WHEAT FLOUR TO IRAQ

The Commodity Credit Corporation has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 12,500 tonnes of wheat flour to Iraq, the U.S. AGriculture Department said. The bonus awarded was 113.0 dlrs per tonne and will be paid to Peavey Company in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. The wheat flour is for delivery May 15-June 15, 1987, the department said. An additional 162,500 tonnes of wheat flour are still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced January 7, 1987, USDA said. Reuter 
EGYPT AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL-480 WHEAT - USDA

Egypt has been authorized to purchase about 200,000 tonnes of U.S. wheat under an existing PL-480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It may buy the wheat, valued at 22.0 mln dlrs, between April 15 and August 31, 1987, and ship it from U.S. ports by September 30, the department said. Reuter 
SHULTZ SAYS "SHADOW" CAST OVER HIS USSR VISIT

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz said the Marines spy case had cast a "heavy shadow" over his scheduled talks in Moscow next week. "Unfortunately, as is so often the case when we are in the midst of potentially promising discussions with the Soviets, the discussions take place in a difficult environment generated by their actions, and these things cast a heavy shadow on our discussions," he told reporters. Reuter 
SOUTH KOREA CORN IMPORTS MAY INCREASE - USDA

South Korea's purchase of about 2.4 mln tonnes of U.S. corn in the past six months -- close to double last year's total -- indicates that imports from the United States, as well as total imports are set for a dramatic jump, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said total South Korea corn imports for the 1986/87 season (Oct-Sept) are estimated at 4.3 mln tonnes, with about 3.4 mln tonnes from the United States. During the 1985/86 season, imports totaled only 1.3 mln tonnes of U.S. corn out of a total of 3.6 mln tonnes. Ite appears the Koreans are shifting back to U.S. corn in light of competitive U.S. prices and uncertain supplies from China, Argentina and South Africa, it said. Reuter 
MEXICAN CATTLE IMPORTS TO BE BRANDED - USDA

All steers imported into the United States from Mexico must now be branded with the letter M on the right jaw, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its World Production and Trade Report, the department said the branding is necessary to improve surveillance for bovine tuberculosis because it provides a permanent way to identify Mexican steers. The requirement is not expected to affect the number of Mexican steers imported into the United States and the brand will be applied before the animals arrive at U.S. ports of entry. Last November, the Mexican Government authorized an export quota of nearly 1.1 mln head of live cattle for the 1986/87 season (Aug-July), most of which goes to the United States. Reuter 
REAGAN TO ALLOW REVIEW OF HIS NOTES ON IRAN

President Reagan has agreed to let the House and Senate select committees investigating the Iran arms sale review his personal diary notes on the affair, committee members said today. The notes will cover the period from January 1, 1984 to December 19, 1986 when the Iran arms deal was planned and carried out and will include notes on Iran, Nicaragua and related subjects, House committee chairman Lee Hamilton said. The notes will be selected by the White House counsel and reviewed by Reagan before they are made available to committee members within a few weeks. Under terms of the agreement, committee members will be allowed to review the notes at the White House, but will not be permitted to make copies of the information. Reuter 
USDA SEEKS COMMENTS ON GRAIN DISCOUNT SCHEDULE

The U.S. Agriculture Department is seeking public comments on the question of adjusting the Commodity Credit Corporation's (CCC) discount and premium schedules to improve the quality of grain it accepts as loan collateral or under price support programs. The premiums and discounts schedule are based on quality factors such as moisture content and kernel damage. The schedule stipulates the premiums and discounts used for valuing grain the CCC accepts or purchases during the year. The department said it is possible that producers could be encouraged to delivery higher quality grain to CCC by adjusting the premiums and discounts. Comments are due by April 24 and a report to Congress is required by law by May 10. Reuter 
WOJNILOWER SEES DROP IN U.S. INTEREST RATES

The Federal Reserve will promote lower interest rates this year to sustain world economic growth, First Boston Corp managing director Albert Wojnilower said. As much as the Fed would like to take a tough line against inflation, it cannot act to slow the growth of credit without subverting national U.S. economic policy. "On selected occasions when the dollar seems steady, and, because the trade deficit is not responding, the United States decided to push Germany and Japan harder to meet their commitments to economic growth, the Federal Reserve will do its part by moving rates down," Wojnilower said in a report. "Justifiably not anticipating either a recession or seriously higher interest rates, securities market participants have seen little to fear," Wojnilower said. He said last week's "hiccup" in money and currency rates and bond and stock prices was probably caused by Japanese window dressing for March 31 end-of-fiscal-year accounts. Wojnilower said the U.S. probably enjoyed above-average economic growth in the first quarter. However, the pick-up seems to reflect an unsustainable pace of inventory building and the prospect for the full year is still for real gross national product growth of about 2-1/2 pct, he said. Reuter 
CANADA TO MONITOR STEEL IMPORTS, EXPORTS

Canada plans to monitor steel shipments flowing in and out of the country in an attempt to appease concerns in the U.S. over the high level of Canadian steel exports, Trade Minister Pat Carney said. "To help maintain our open access to the U.S. steel market, the government is taking further action to ensure we have more accurate data on exports and imports and that Canada is not used as a backdoor to the U.S. market by offshore suppliers," Carney said. Carney also said Canadian companies were being asked to exercise prudence in the U.S. market and both countries were considering establishing a joint commission to study the growing steel problem. Carney told the House of Commons she will soon announce an amendment to the Exports and Imports Permits Act to set up the monitoring program. Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pct cent of the U.S. market in recent months, almost double the level just two years ago, Canadian trade officials said. The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time of growing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports from several countries in the face of a decline in the domestic steel industry. Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada's share of the American market be limited to 2.4 pct. Reuter 
U.S.SENATE LIFTS SOME BANS ON NATURAL GAS

The Senate unanimously approved legislation to lift a ban on new construction of natural gas-fired power plants and other large industrial gas-burning plants. The bill, sponsored by Senate Energy Committee chairman Bennett Johnston, also repeals mandatory incremental pricing of natural gas which was designed to protect residential consumers from major price increases by forcing some industrial users to pay higher than market prices. "This legislation will open up new natural gas markets," the Lousiana Democrat said. The gas restrictions were enacted in 1978 in response to a shortage of natural gas and predictions of higher prices. "Now both oil and gas prices are severely depressed," Johnston said. In a compromise with coal producers, the bill requires new baseload electric powerplants be designed to accomodate modifications necessary to burning coal or another alternate fuel. Reuter 
USDA DISCUSSING PL 480 AGREEMENT WITH MOROCCO

The U.S. Agriculture Department is currently discussing an amendment to a PL 480 agreement signed with Morocco on January 22, but the mix of commodities under the amendment has not been determined, a U.S. Agriculture Department official said. The official noted the agreement signed in January provided for the supply of about 55,000 tonnes of vegetable oil, 55,000 tonnes of corn and 126,000 tonnes of wheat, all for delivery during the current fiscal year, ending this September 30. No purchase authorizations for the commodities provided in the January agreement have been announced by the department. Reuter 
EIA SAYS DISTILLATE STOCKS UNCHANGED IN WEEK

Distillate fuel stocks held in primary storage were unchanged in the week ended April three at 106.9 mln barrels, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Department of Energy agency said gasoline stocks were off 200,000 barrels in the week to 248.1 mln barrels and refinery crude oil stocks rose 6.3 mln barrels to 335.8 mln. The EIA said residual fuel stocks fell 100,000 barrels to 38.1 mln barrels and crude oil stocks in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) rose 1.1 mln barrels to 520.0 mln. The total of all crude, refined product and SPR stocks rose 9.4 mln barrels to 1,561.1, it said. Reuter 
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND OFF 2.6 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied fell 2.6 pct in the four weeks ended April three to 15.73 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 16.16 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was off 7.9 pct in the period to 2.90 mln bpd from 3.15 mln a year earlier. Gasoline demand averaged 6.76 mln bpd, off 3.1 pct from 6.98 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.15 mln bpd, off 16.9 pct from 1.39 mln, the EIA said. So far this year, distillate demand fell 2.3 pct to 3.20 mln bpd from 3.28 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.63 mln bpd, off 0.3 pct from 6.65 mln, and residual fuel demand fell 4.9 pct to 1.35 mln bpd from 1.42 mln, the EIA said. Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.40 mln bpd, off 7.6 pct from 9.09 mln a year ago, while gross crude imports averaged 3.92 mln bpd, up 27.1 pct from 3.08 mln, it said. Reuter 
FUNARO SAYS BRAZIL'S CREDITORS MUST TRUST HIM

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro, who suspended interest payments to creditor banks two months ago, said creditors had to trust him when he said Brazil would achieve a trade surplus large enough to continue servicing its debt. Speaking to reporters at the Brazilian Embassy, Funaro said he would not seek approval of Brazil's economic program outside his country, but added, "At the same time we show credibility, you (the banks) are going to have to trust us." Asked if creditor banks would accept Brazil's refinancing needs based on a new economic program not endorsed by the International Monetary Fund, Funaro said, "What other options do they have?...They have to try to see our program." Funaro, who is in Washington to attend the Interim Committee and Development Committee meetings of the World Bank and IMF, said he unveiled his refinancing proposals to the major creditor banks in New York yesterday. According to Funaro, the creditor banks "agreed on the need to find a solution to the crisis." He did not elaborate. Funaro said the commercial banks agreed on Brazil's need for economic growth and added that creditors were aware that Brazil cannot continue to export the 24 billion dlrs in net capital that it transferred over the past three years. He also said that he told bankers about Brazil's needs to ensure a seven pct average growth and eight billion to 11 billion dlr trade surplus until 1991. Administration officials familiar with the negotiations said Brazil's new economic measures did not make much sense based on current conditions in that country, and added that they saw long and difficult negotiations ahead. Lewis Preston, chairman of J.P. Morgan and Co. Inc., told Reuters he remains hopeful that Brazil and its foreign bank creditors will reach a debt rescheduling agreement before the end of the year. But Preston, who did not attend the meeting between Funaro and creditor banks yesterday, added the onus is still on Brazil to put its economic house in order first. "They haven't even come up with a plan yet," Preston said after Morgan's annual meeting in New York today. Funaro, however, said most creditor banks had representatives in Brazil who were well aware of Brazil's new economic measures, designed to curb a surge in inflation and spending and a sharp drop in exports. Funaro called Brazil's program very responsible and very strong, adding that "it is very different from other years, there has been a tremendous change." Based on Brazil's current economic situation - suspension of interest payments on 67 billion dlrs owed to banks, 200 pct inflation and the need of four billion dlrs in new loans every year until 1991 - he said he was faced with two options. REUTER... 
SOVIET UNION ACCUSES U.S. OF SPYING

The Soviet Union displayed spying equipment it said had been placed by American agents in five different Soviet buildings in the United States. A Foreign Ministry spokesman told a news conference the equipment demonstrated "the widespread, illegal activities against Soviet people and missions in the United States by American special services." Diagrams and photographs displayed at the news conference showed devices allegedly found in the Soviet embassy in Washington, the consulate in San Francisco and in other locations. REUTER 
GALAXY OIL <GOX> BEING DELISTED BY AMEX

Galaxy Oil Co said its common stock and nine pct convertible subordinated debentures due 1994 are being delisted from the <American Stock Exchange> because the company no longer meets listing criteria. Galaxy filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy on April Six. The company said trading in both issues will be suspended by the Amex at the close on May One but is expected to start elsewhere on May Four. Reuter 
TODD SHIPYARDS <TOD> STRUCK ON WEST COAST

Todd Shipyards Corp said production workers represented by the multi-union Pacific Coast Metal Trades District Council at its San Francisco division struck on April Six. It said negotiations are expected to resume at the end of this month. Todd also said the collective bargaining division in effect at its Galveston Division expires April 17, and negotiations with the Galveston Metal Trades Council are continuing. The company said results of balloting on a new collective bargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division are expected to be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow. The Pacific Coast Council has recommended acceptance of that proposal by membership, Todd said. Reuter 
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS FELL IN WEEK

New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 338,000 in the week ended March 28 from 355,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,436,000 in the week ended March 21, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was down from 2,480,000 the previous week. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY FUTURES CALLED UNCHANGED TO LOWER

Traders expect U.S. energy futures will open unchanged to slightly lower this morning with support near yesterday's lows. Crude futures are called unchanged to five cts weaker tracking unchanged domestic crudes and North Sea Brent crude, which traded at 18.01 dlrs a barrel today, about ten cts below yesterday's New York close. Traders said the supply squeeze in 15-day forward April Brent appears to have ended. Product futures, which fell sharply yesterday, are due to open unchanged to 0.25 cent lower, traders said. Traders expect some followthrough selling in products but said gasoil futures in London will probably lend some support since they are trading as expected. May gasoil futures were off 1.50 dlrs a tonne this morning while June was down 1.25 dlrs in thin conditions. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 287,000 to 295,000 head versus 292,000 week ago and 322,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 124,000 to 128,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 134,000 a year ago. Reuter 
GLOBAL ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN RAISES NEW DEBT FEARS

The global economy is expected to weaken this year, adding new worries to an already serious poverty outlook, economic analysts said. For finance ministers and central bankers attending this week's semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, the new figures released by the IMF add an additional concern. The Fund estimated world output would only grow by 2.7 pct this year, versus 2.9 pct last year, and 3.1 pct in 1985. In the industrial countries, Gross National Product, a measure of all goods and services, was expected to decline to 2.3 pct this year, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986, the IMF said. For the developing countries, the Gross Domestic Product, another measure of economic growth, was expected to fall to 3.0 pct from 3.5 pct last year. The new figures are considered a major disappointment to the poorest countries. They had hoped that new vitality in the industrial countries brought on by a sharp decline in oil prices would assist their economic recovery and help them cope with growing mounds of debt. IMF officials, discussing their outlook, said they believed the industrial country economies would move up to an annual growth rate of three pct by the end of the decade. Economic analysts and the IMF have been saying for some time that the ability to keep the debt crisis from turning into an economic rout rests on sustained economic growth. Since the debtor countries must look to the wealthier states for markets for their products as well as financial assistance, economic weakness in the developed nations' economies poses fundamental worries. Debtor countries, including the very poorest states, have only a few avenues open to them for earning foreign exchange, including the key one of exports. The U.S. economy, which is in its fifth year of expansion, has served as a mainstay for developing country exports, but it too is seen as being rather feeble this year, growing by only 2.3 pct, according to the IMF. For this reason and because of a high trade deficit, the United States has been pressuring Japan and West Germany to ignite their economies but with little apparent success. The IMF study also examines the course of the dollar and the curious lack of impact it has had on the U.S. trade deficit. Reagan administration officials have been saying that the impact is now beginning to show up, although it has been much slower than expected. The IMF observed in its World Economic Outlook that "it has to be recognized that exchange rate adjustments take time to work through to payments flows -- probably at least three years to get a resonably complete effect." The report added, however, "the adjustments may take even more time on this occasion." REUTER^M 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-174 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-87 days 175-190 days 5.85 pct 5.82 pct 88-103 days 191-270 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 104-179 days 271-288 days 5.92 pct 5.85 pct 180-205 days 289-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 206-360 days Reuter 
STOLTENBERG NOT SURPRISED BY DOLLAR REACTION

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said he was not surprised by the overnight decline of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. Speaking briefly with reporters before entering a meeting of the International Monetary Fund he said, "These minor movements don't really affect us." The dollar declined in the initial reaction to a statement by the Group of Seven industrial countries reaffirming their Paris agreement in February to maintain their currencies around current levels. Reuter 
ASARCO UPS U.S. LEAD PRICE 0.50 CT TO 26.50 CTS

Asarco Inc said it is increasing its base spot sales price for refined lead by one-half cent to 26.50 cents a lb, FOB, delivered in carload lots, effective immediately. Reuter 
CERTIFICATED COTTON STOCKS

Certificated cotton stocks deliverable on the New York Cotton Exchange No 2 cotton futures contract as of April 8 were reported at 34,661 bales, down 421 bales from the previous day's figure. There were no bales awaiting review and 1,218 bales awaiting decertification. Reuter 
EGYPT BUYS PL 480 WHEAT FLOUR - U.S. TRADERS

Egypt bought 125,723 tonnes of U.S. wheat flour in its PL 480 tender yesterday, trade sources said. The purchase included 51,880 tonnes for May shipment and 73,843 tonnes for June shipment. Price details were not available. Reuter 
SALLIE MAE ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Student Loan Marketing Association said its rates on short-term discount notes were as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 5-14 days 5.80 pct 5.75 pct 5-14 days 15-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 15-85 days 5.80 pct 86-91 days 5.00 pct 92-176 days 5.83 pct 177-183 days 5.00 pct 184-360 days Reuter 
FREDDIE MAC ADJUSTS SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT RATES

The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 33 days 6.00 pct 6.00 pct 33 days Reuter 
YUGOSLAVIA TO TENDER FOR 100,000 TONNES WHEAT

Yugoslavia will tender April 14 for 100,000 tonnes of wheat, the U.S. Agriculture Department's Counselor in Belgrade said in a field report. The report, dated April 7, said the wheat must be from 1986 and 1987 harvest, and imports of soft wheat from Europe and from other suppliers will not be considered. It said the imports will be used to rebuild the federal reserves and as a result will not be subject to import surcharges. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> CUTS HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS SAID

Oil traders in the New York area said Exxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. unit reduced the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today. They said the reduction brings Exxon's contract barge price to 49.75. The price decrease follows sharp declines in heating oil prices in the spot and futures markets, traders said. Reuter 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-174 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-174 days 175-190 days 5.88 pct 5.85 pct 175-190 days 191-270 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 191-270 days 271-288 days 5.92 pct 5.92 pct 271-288 days 289-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 289-360 days Reuter 
CANNON INT'L <CAN> SETS PHILIPPINES FILM PACT

Cannon International said <Viva Films International> agreed to exclusively distribute Cannon films in the Philippines for the new four years. The company said the agreement covers both theatrical and video distribution. Terms were not disclosed. Reuter 
FED MAY ADD RESERVES TO BANKING SYSTEM

The Federal Reserve may intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. They said that while the Fed faces no great urgency to add reserves at the start of the two-week maintenance period today it would probably do so in order to offset a relatively high federal funds rate. Fed funds opened at 6-3/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Yesterday, they averaged 6.45 pct, after rising as high as seven pct at the close. Reuter 
GROUP OF 10 WELCOMES LATEST G-7 AGREEMENT

The Group of 10 developed nations issued a communique welcoming the reaffirmation of the Paris accord on currency stability by the Group of Seven leading industrial democracies yesterday. In the communique issued this morning, the G-10 said "prospects of member countries' economies would be improved by stability in the exchange rates of their currencies." The G-10 includes the group of seven - the United States, Canada, Britain, Japan, Italy, West Germany and France - plus Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden and also Switzerland. Sources who attended the G-10 conference this morning said the reference to the latest G-7 agreement was especially added to the brief communique because currency stability will benefit all the G-10 members. The G-10 met briefly before the International Monetary Fund Interim Committee meeting scheduled for today. . Reuter 
GANDALF <GANDF> IN PACT WITH APPAREL COMPUTER

Gandalf Technologies Inc said its Redifacts division and Apparel Computer Systems Inc of Concord, Calif., started a joint marketing effort in industrial data collection and dissemination. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed. Gandalf said the companies will link software products to develop an on-line, real-time payroll information system for apparel production factories. Reuter 
TALKING POINT/STEEL COMPANIES

Steel stocks, which have had a healthy runup recently, still present some short term investment opportunities, according to some steel analysts. But others say the upturn, based on strong orders and firm prices this spring, has been strictly seasonal and will end soon. They recommend taking profits. "It's that time of year. This is strictly seasonal," said Charles Bradford of Merrill Lynch and Co. "Orders will be strong for about two months, and there are signs that some (order rates) are starting to dive already." But Dean Witter Reynolds Inc analyst Clarence Morrison sees some short-term potential in the group, which includes USX Corp <X>, Bethlehem Steel Corp <BS>, Armco Inc <AS> and Inland Steel Industries Inc <IAD>. "There is still some attractiveness to steels over the short- to intermediate-term based on improved order rates and rising prices," Morrison said. He only recommends one stock, however, Inland, which is modernizing steelmaking operations to make them more efficient. Despite his bearishness, Merrill's Bradford continues to recommend Armco, which he sees as a major turnaround. Armco's steelmaking operations are profitable, the balance sheet has been improved, and its oilfield equipment business has been slimmed and put in a joint venture with USX, Bradford noted. "It's not a high-quality investment situation yet but they've come a long way," he said. "We think the stock will do moderately better than the market," he said. Armco shares, trading off 1/4 at 10 today, could go to 12, and possibly as high as 15, he said. Bradford sees Armco earning 50 to 75 cts a share in 1987, before special gains from recouped investment tax credits, against losses last year. Armco's 1988 earnings could be significantly higher, he said. Bradford is recommending sale of USX shares. "We had a buy on it below 20 but when it gets to 28, let somebody else have it," he said. The steel and energy concern will earn about one dlr a share in 1987, about half of that coming from asset sales, and from two dlrs to 2.50 dlrs in 1988, Bradford said. "But a lot depends on oil prices," he added. About 60 pct of USX's sales come from oil and natural gas. Other analysts, including Michelle Galanter Applebaum of Salomon Brothers Inc, recommend USX. "The company's done a lot (of restructuring), more than the market's given them credit for," she said. She sees the stock going to the mid 30s or higher. USX was trading up 1/8 at 28-1/2. She predicts USX will earn 18 cts a share this year and 2.73 dlrs next year against large losses in 1986. Applebaum, who is also positive on Armco and Inland, has been recommending the stocks since last November. Peter Marcus of Painewebber Inc is neutral on the group although he said the earnings outlook is improved through the third quarter. But he sees potential trouble beyond then. "I think (steel) prices on a bookings basis will start to drop by the summer," he said. Applebaum of Salomon Brothers also sees some seasonal dropoff later in the year. "But there are more positives than negatives," she said, citing reduced capacity in the domestic industry, better prices, and a weaker dollar, which should cause steel imports to drop off slightly from last year. Reuter 
EASTERN DISTRIBUTIVE BEEF TRADE WEEKLY - USDA

Demand good for moderate supplies of most beef cuts, However, limited interest noted for tenderloins/flank steaks. Yield grade 2-3 beef cuts, fabricated items, vacuum packed. LBS CHOICE ROUND CUTS -steady/up 11.00 160 round, part bnls 50-85 few 137 161 round, bnls 42-80 few 147 161 diamond cut 49-85 few 149 167 knuckle 8-15 few 148 167a knuckle, peeled 8-15 few 163 168 top inside round 14-26 165-175 170 bottom gooseneck rnd 18-33 131-135 More 
BRAZIL COTTON CROP LOWER -- USDA REPORT

Brazil's 1986/87 cotton crop estimate has been reduced to 710,000 from 735,000 tonnes (lint basis), the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Sao Paulo said in a field report. The report, dated April 7, said the reduction is based on an expected smaller harvest in the center-south region. The center-south crop is now estimated at 550,000 tonnes -- 25,000 tonnes below the previous estimate. Hot, dry weather during part of January and excessive rains in some areas in February reduced yield prospects and may have affected quality, the report said. Nearly 60 pct of the crop has been harvested in Parana and slightly less in Sao Paulo, it said. Cotton entering gins is of fairly good quality, according to trade sources, it said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES DEFEATS REAGAN'S 1988 BUDGET



U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS RATE SHIFTS ORDERLY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that changes in exchange rates have generally been orderly and have improved the prospects for a reduction in external imbalances to more sustainable levels. In remarks before the IMF's policy-making Interim Committee, Baker reiterated a Group of Seven statement last night that the substantial exchange rate changes since the Plaza agreement 18 months ago have "now brought currencies within ranges broadly consistent with economic fundamentals." Baker said, "These exchange rate shifts have generally been orderly, and have improved prospects for the reduction of external imbalances to more sustainable levels." As they are today, the trade and current account imbalances "simply are not sustainable," Baker told the ministers. He said that the Reagan administration was resisting "strong domestic pressure" for trade protection and was working closely with the U.S. Congress in crafting a trade bill. "While we cannot yet be sure of the outcome, we are doing what we can to ensure that the bill is not protectionist," he said. Baker also urged the International Monetary Fund's executive board to review possible modifications to the Fund's compensatory financing facility before the annual meeting this fall. "We should pay particular attention to the lack of continuing conditionality associated with the use of the CFF and to whether shortfalls in export earnings are indeed temporary," he said. Reuter 
DATA ARCHITECTS <DRCH> TO TRADE ON AMEX

The American Stock Exchange said Data Architects Inc common will begin trading on the exchange tomorrow under the symbol <DAI>. REUTER^M 
U.S. HOUSE DEFEATS REAGAN'S 1988 BUDGET

The Democratic-run House of Representatives defeated on a 394 to 27 vote President Reagan's 1988 budget and planned to vote later on one written by House Budget Committee Democrats. The defeat was expected. Republicans as well as Democrats abandoned Reagan's budget for containing what they said were unrealistic assumptions. Democratic leaders said they expected to pass the committee's budget after considering two other alternatives, but committee sources said the voting could be close. Reuter 
SPRINKEL SAYS TAX HIKE WOULD NOT REDUCE DEFICIT

Council of Economic Advisers chairman Beryl Sprinkel said the Reagan Administration remains strongly opposed to a tax increase, including 18 billion dlrs of new revenues in the budget plan by Congressional Democrats. "We believe that significant increases in taxes would not reduce deficits and could have adverse effects on growth," Sprinkel told the House Rules Committee. He said the Administration wanted to continue its policy of gradually reducing deficits through restraining government spending and promoting economic growth. Sprinkel said cutting the budget deficit was the best way to lower the trade deficit. Reuter 
FED BUYING DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET, NEW YORK DEALERS SAY



FED SEEN BUYING DOLLARS FOR YEN IN OPEN MARKET

The Federal Reserve was detected buying dollars for yen in the open market as the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 144.60 yen in nervous late morning trading, currency dealers said. They said the size of the intervention was relatively modest so far but it was a clear indication that the U.S. remained committed to the late February Paris currency stabilization accord, which was reaffirmed in Washington last night. A Fed spokeswoman had no comment on the dealer reports. The dollar hovered around 144.70 just before midday. Reuter 
FRANCE'S BALLADUR SAYS TARGET ZONE NOTION NEARER

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said that the financial community is closer to arriving at a system of target zones for currencies despite the fact that little is being said about them. Speaking with reporters at the semiannual meetings of the International Monetary Fund, Balladur said, "We are not very far from the notion of target zones, even if we don't say so." He told reporters that "our ideas are progressing," adding that the finance ministers have been talking about more cooperation on economic policies and on levels around which currencies should stabilize. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS WAITING AT NEW ORLEANS

Ten grain ships were loading and 14 were waiting to load at New Orleans elevators, trade sources said. ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING Continental Grain, Westwego 1 6 Mississippi River, Myrtle Grove 1 0 ADM Growmark 1 4 Bunge Grain, Destrehan 1 0 ELEVATOR LOADING WAITING ST CHARLES DESTREHAN 1 1 RESERVE ELEVATOR CORP 1 0 PEAVEY CO, ST ELMO 1 0 CARGILL GRAIN, TERRE HAUTE 2 1 CARGILL GRAIN, PORT ALLEN 0 0 ZEN-NOH 1 2 reuter 
U.S. TO PUSH STRONG SUMMIT AGRICULTURE STATEMENT

The United States will push for a strong statement from Western heads-of-state at the June economic summit in Venice, urging "comprehensive" negotiations on agriculture begin immediately to reduce domestic farm subsidies, the senior U.S. planner for the summit said. "Agriculture has really become the number one international economic problem," Allen Wallis, undersecretary of state for economic affairs, told Reuters in an interview. At the Tokyo economic summit last year, western leaders identified agriculture as a major international problem but made no specific recommendations. This year, Wallis said the U.S. will press for a statement instructing trade ministers to begin negotiating on the issue, and include domestic programs. While the Western leaders, including president Reagan, will not conduct specific negotiations, Wallis said they can give a push to the agriculture talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Wallis said the leaders should endorse a "comprehensive" negotiation, which is interpreted as including domestic policies as well as import restraints and export subsidies. Reuter 
U.S. TO PUSH STRONG SUMMIT AGRICULTURE STATEMENT

The United States will push for a strong statement from Western heads-of-state at the June economic summit in Venice, urging "comprehensive" negotiations on agriculture begin immediately to reduce domestic farm subsidies, the senior U.S. planner for the summit said. "Agriculture has really become the number one international economic problem," Allen Wallis, undersecretary of state for economic affairs, told Reuters in an interview. At the Tokyo economic summit last year, western leaders identified agriculture as a major international problem but made no specific recommendations. This year, Wallis said the U.S. will press for a statement instructing trade ministers to begin negotiating on the issue, and include domestic programs. While the Western leaders, including president Reagan, will not conduct specific negotiations, Wallis said they can give a push to the agriculture talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Wallis said the leaders should endorse a "comprehensive" negotiation, which is interpreted as including domestic policies as well as import restraints and export subsidies. "They (GATT talks) really have to deal with domestic policies, as well as trade arrangements," Wallis said. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has said a summit statement of support for agriculture talks is part of an overall U.S. strategy to build momentum for the GATT farm talks. Public statements in recent weeks by several members of the Reagan cabinet have stressed the agriculture issue. Yeutter and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will repeatedly discuss agriculture during a visit to Japan starting next week. Yeutter said agriculture will also be on the agenda of the trade ministers "quadrilateral" talks among Japan, the European Community, the U.S. and Canada this month. And the ministerial meeting of the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, in May will highlight the agriculture problem, Yeutter said. The OECD in May is expected to release a study of domestic farm subsidies which shows that Japan has the highest subsidies among industrial countries, but aid to farmers is also generous in the EC and United States. The controversial OECD study calculated a measure of farm subsidies called the Producer Subsidy Equivalent, PSE, which allows farm aid to be compared across countries. Some officials including British Agriculture Minister Michael Jopling, have said the PSE could be useful as a method of negotiating lower domestic farm subsidies worldwide. However, the State Department's Wallis said while the PSE can be useful in negotiations, it has shortcomings and "its not definitive." He and other U.S. officials said the Reagan administration has not yet reached a decision on a specific U.S. agriculture proposal to present to the GATT. "I would expect it (U.S. proposal) to be in the fall," after the series of international meetings, Wallis said. At preliminary meetings of the GATT agriculture committee, the United States has pushed for the so-called "freeze and rollback" approach. Subsidies would first be frozen at current levels, then rolled-back jointly in stages. However, the Reagan administration perplexed some trade analysts recently by reacting cooly to a plan by Australian prime minister Bob Hawke calling for a similar approach. Hawke unveiled a seven-point plan to freeze and subsequently reduce the gap between high farm price supports and world prices. Australia is leading a the so-called Cairns group of 13 coutries pressing for freer agriculture trade. "The proposals that the so-called Cairns group are coming up with seem to be focusing on short-run, quick fixes which is not what we think is what's called for here," Wallis said. Wallis and other said the U.S. wants a "long-range" solution to the agriculture problem. U.S. officials also have criticized the Australian proposal because they said it deals primarily with the difference between domestic prices and world levels in the EC and U.S., but fails to focus on the question of market access. At the same time the U.S. is rejecting the Australian "quick fix", Wallis said the U.S. will press at the summit for a declaration urging that agriculture talks be completed "expeditiously", or within two years. The unstated U.S. strategy, U.S. officials said, is to keep the pressure on the EC this year through the export enhancement program and lower value of the dollar, in the hope that a sweeping agriculture agreement is possible in 1988. Reuter 
U.S. MARCH RETAIL SALES CUT BY LATE EASTER

U.S. retailers' lackluster March sales were due to a late Easter, according to analysts who expect a recovery in April. "Sales look soft because of the Easter shift, but underlying business is better than the numbers indicate," said Bear Stearns analyst Monroe Greenstein. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurance. This year, Easter is being observed on April 19, which is three weeks later than last year. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for March rose an unadjusted 2.5 to 3.0 pct, and a seasonally adjusted 5.5 pct to six pct, compared to an adjusted 5.7 pct last year. "The obvious question is whether these numbers indicate that the consumer activity is slowing, but it does not appear to be because liquidity and employment are rising," said analyst Jeff Edelman, analyst of Drexel Lambert and Burnham. Overall, analysts said first half sales are coming in according to expectations. Sales for all of 1987 are expected to rise about 5.5 pct to six pct, up a bit from 1986's rise. In March, sales of housewares, furniture and big ticket items were stronger than apparel sales, signaling to many analysts that apparel sales will be strong in April as the holiday nears. "Sales gains in home appliances and home fashions reflect a continuing strength in the housing market," said Edward Brennan, chairman of Sears Roebuck and Co <S> which reported an overall sales gain of 4.2 pct. Brennan said sales of women's sportswear were also excellent. "Sears' total apparel sales was up only modestly, but even a modest improvement in apparel is a very good accomplishment due to the fact that most people will buy apparel in April," said C.J. Lawrence analysts Harry Mortner. J.C. Penney Co Inc <JCP> and Dayton Hudson Corp <DH> were among the weaker performers with comparable stores sales declining 1.5 pct and 4.9 pct, respectively. Penney's store and catalog sales declined 1.3 pct overall and Dayton Hudson's overall sales rose 4.8 pct. Penney chairman William Howell said, "Sales continued strong for catalog operations and, geographically, ranged from very active in the east to weak in the economically depressed southwest." "Penney's been shifting away from leisure time activity wear to other apparel lines, which yield higher profit margins, but are currently hurting sales," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Hudson chairman Kenneth Mackes cited the late Easter for the decline. Edelman of Drexel said that "Hudson had a tougher comparison because it had an exceptionally good 1986." Most analysts agreed that promotions are slightly lower than last year. "Retailers are not planning for much - inventories are being kept lean, markdowns are lower than last year, but sales are coming through anyway," said CJ Analyst Harry Mortner. Mortner said he expects profits in the first quarter to be better than he had originally expected in the beginning of the year. Most retailers report their first quarter in the middle of May. MARCH RETAIL SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE PCT 1987 1986 SEARS 4.2 2.6 BIL 2.5 BIL K MART 4.6 2.2 BIL 2.1 BIL JC PENNEY (1.3) 1.1 BIL 1.1 BIL WAL-MART 32 1.1 BIL 855 MLN FEDERATED 4.9 934 MLN 891 MLN MAY 3.5 885 MLN 855 MLN DAYTON 4.8 792 MLN 756 MLN WOOLWORTH 0.2 591 MLN 590 MLN ZAYRE 12.7 522 MLN 464 MLN Reuter 
WORLD BANK TO SEND ECONOMIC MISSION TO BRAZIL

World Bank President Barber Conable said his agency plans to send a mission to Brazil next week to explore economic conditions. Speaking to reporters at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank annual meeting, Conable said that he felt positive and optimistic that something between Brazil and its creditors will be worked out. Conable met last night with Brazilian officials and told reporters that "We agreed to send a mission to Brazil next week to explore further the state of progress and to get clarifications." Reuter 
WORLD BANK TO SEND ECONOMIC MISSION TO BRAZIL

World Bank President Barber Conable said his agency plans to send a mission to Brazil next week to explore economic conditions. Speaking to reporters at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank annual meeting, Conable said that he felt positive and optimistic that something between Brazil and its creditors will be worked out. Conable met last night with Brazilian officials and told reporters, "We agreed to send a mission to Brazil next week to explore further the state of progress and to get clarifications." Reuter 
MOROCCO TENDERS FOR 55,000 TONNES PL 480 SOYOIL

Morocco is scheduled to tender April 14 for a total of 55,000 tonnes of U.S. soyoil under PL-480 for shipments from May through September, private export sources said. The tender calls for shipment of 6,100 tonnes in May, 12,200 tonnes each in June, July and August and 12,300 tonnes in September, they said. Reuter 
REAGAN DECLARES MAINE DISASTER AREA

President Reagan declared that a major disaster existed in the State of Maine in following severe storms and flooding there, paving the way for federal relief and reconstruction assistance. In announcing Reagan's action, the White House said in a written statement that Androscoggin, Franklin, Kennebec, Oxford, Penobscot, Piscataquis and Somerset counties would be eligible for federal aid. Those counties were hit by storms and flooding in late March and early April. Reuter 
GE <GE> GETS PORTUGUESE ENGINE ORDER

General Electric Co said it has received a 60 mln dlr order to provide CF6-80C2 engines for three <Airbus Industrie> A310-300 aircraft bought by TAP Air Portugal. It said aircraft deliveries are scheduled to start in late 1988. Reuter 
DOE RUN RAISES LEAD PRICE 0.50 CT TO 26.50 CTS

Doe Run Company said it is increasing the price of its corroding grade lead by one-half cent to 26.50 cents a lb, effective immediately. The price is quoted FOB, Herculaneum, Mo., and FOB, Boss, Mo., with freight allowed for carload quantities. Reuter 
NEW GULF FIGHTING NOT A MAJOR OFFENSIVE - U.S.

The United States said a new attack by Iran in the Gulf war against Iraq does not appear to be a major offensive. "We don't believe that what has been called Karbala-8 is a major offensive," State Department spokesman Charles Redman said. He was responding to Iran's announcement that it had launched its second offensive in three days against Iraq. Karbala-8 is the code name for the attack in which both sides have reported heavy fighting on the southern front near the major Iraqi port of Basra. Redman said the offensive "appears to have been an Iran attack which has not made much of an advance." Detailed information is lacking, he said, "but this seems to be largely a repetition of the kind of fighting we had seen previously in the same area east of Basra." Redman restated the U.S. call for an immediate end to hostilities and said Washington "deplored the loss of life in this tragic war." Reuter 
U.S. CONGRESSMAN INTRODUCES REAGAN SUGAR BILL

Rep. John Porter, R-Ill., introduced in the House of Representatives legislation proposed by the Reagan administration to slash the U.S. sugar price support, a spokesman for Porter said. The spokesman said the bill was introduced without any changes from the administration's proposal sent to Congress last month. That plan calls for a cut in the sugar loan rate to 12 cents per pound from 18 cents now. Sugar growers would be compensated for the price cut with targeted direct payments, to be gradually phased-out through 1990. The payments to growers would cost an estimated 1.1 billion dlrs. Representatives of sugar growers have rejected the proposal, saying it would ruin the domestic sugar industry. Reuter 
HUGHES' <HT> U.S. RIG COUNT RISES TO 752

The U.S. drilling rig count rose by four last week to a total of 752, against 987 working rigs one year ago, Hughes Tool Co said. In Canada, the rig count continued falling last week because of the government's annual springtime ban prohibiting heavy equipment from being transported over rain-softened highways. A total of 85 rigs were working in Canada, down 46 from the previous week, Hughes said. At this time last year, a total of 109 rigs were working in Canada. Among individual states, Louisiana and New Mexico each reported drilling declines of 10 rigs and Kansas was down by seven. Gains were reported in Oklahoma, Wyoming and Texas which increased by 20, seven and one, respectively. Hughes said the total of 752 working rigs in the United States included 17 in inland waters, 74 in offshore waters and 661 on land. Reuter 
DELTA AIR <DAL> FILES FOR ONE-STOP TO SEOUL

Delta Air Lines said it filed with the U.S. Department of Transportation its application for one-stop service from Portland, Ore, to Seoul, Korea, via Tokyo. If all government approvals are given promptly, Delta said service could begin by July One, 1987. Delta said it started service from Portland to Tokyo on March two and operates five weekly round trips. It will increase service to six flights on June One, and plans daily service by 1988, Delta said. Reuter 
FUNARO SHRUGS OFF CALLS FOR RESIGNATION

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro shrugged off demands by a group of Brazilian governors that he resign. "At this moment I am discussing something much more serious for Brazil and it's absolutely indispensible in a negotiation like this one that I dedicate myself entirely to the discussions," Funaro told reporters. Funaro, who spoke today to the International Monetary Fund's interim committee, was referring to talks he began Tuesday with creditor banks in New York in which unveiled Brazil's economic targets and financial needs. The governor of Sao Paulo state Orestes Quersia and other governors last night called on Brazilian President Jose Sarney to assume direct control of the debt negotiations. Asked if the governors' demands for his resignation would affect negotiations, Funaro said: "We are building a new refinancing position and that is what we are doing now. The rest is secondary." He added that Brazil's economic program clearly demonstrates the intention to renegotiate the countries international financial committments, and added: "The domestic problems are our business." Funaro said discussions on Brazil's refinancing proposals were well under way with private creditor banks and added World Bank President Barber Conable had also accepted the proposals as "a good plan" at a meeting they had last night. But Conable, who was also present at today's IMF interim committee meeting told reporters that the World Bank wanted further clarifications on Brazil's economic programs. "We wish further clarification about the program with respect to adjustment lending," Conable said. He added that a World Bank mission would travel to Brazil early next week to explore the state of Brazil's new economic measures. Reuter 
ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT TO CUT HEATING OIL PRICE

Royal Dutch/Shell's Scallop Petroleum Co subsidiary said it will reduce the price it charges contract barge customers in New York harbor for heating oil by 2.5 cts a gallon, effective tomorrow. The company said the price cut will bring the contract barge price for heating oil to 51 cts a gallon. Reuter 
MAGMA RAISES COPPER PRICE 0.25 CT TO 65.75 CTS

Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is raising its copper cathode price by 0.25 cent to 65.75 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
HOUSE PANEL WANTS PENTAGON MANAGE U.S. STOCKPILE

The House Armed Services Committee has voted for a transfer in the management of stockpiled materials for national defense to the U.S. Defense Secretary. The committee also voted for legally-binding quantity and quality requirements on the materials, mostly metals. The measures are a part of the Defense Authorization Bill which will be voted on in the House next month. The purpose of the measures, passed by the committee yesterday, is to improve stockpile management and discourage sell-offs of materials that could jeopardize strategic needs, a staff member of the committee told Reuters. "They (the stockpiles) stand to gain the most by being managed properly," said the staffer. "Management of the stockpile over the last 10 years has been atrocious." Responsibility for stockpile management now belongs to a White House agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The staffer said under the measures passed by the committee the Secretary of Defense would have more influence over decisions to keep or sell strategic stockpile materials. The administration has proposed a goal of 700 million dlrs worth of strategic materials to be held in the stockpile. The stockpile now contains around 10 billion dlrs of materials. He said several agencies currently helped FEMA to manage the stockpile and decide how much to sell to help the deficit. These agencies included the Office of Management and Budget and the Departments of Interior and Commerce, he said. The committee believed the shared involvement in stockpile management was counter-productive, he said. Reuter 
USDA - U.S. 1986/87 ENDING CORN STOCKS  5,240 MLN BU, WHEAT 1,848 MLN, SOYBEANS 610 MLN



USDA 1986/87 U.S. ORANGE CROP 190,050,000  BOXES, FLORIDA CROP 122,900,000 BOXES



USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 ORANGE JUICE YIELD  AT 1.50 GALS PER BOX FROM FLORIDA CROP



U.S. SUPPLY/DEMAND HIGHLIGHTS

Following are highlights of the U.S. Agriculture Department supply/demand projections for the 1986/87 seasons, in mln bushels, with comparisons, unless noted -- Corn -- Stocks, Aug 31, 1987, at 5,240, vs 5,595 last month. Stocks, Aug 31, 1986, at 4,040, vs 4,040 last month. Exports projected at 1,375, vs 1,250 last month. Exports in 1985/86 at 1,241, vs 1,241 last month. Domestic use at 5,680, vs 5,450 last month. Usage in the 1985/86 season at 5,255, vs 5,255 last month. Wheat -- Stocks, May 31, 1987, projected at 1,848, vs 1,877 last month. Stocks on May 31, 1986, at 1,905, vs 1,905 last month. Exports in 1986/87 season at 1,025, vs 1,025 last month. 1985/86 season at 915, vs 915 last month. Domestic use in 1986/87 at 1,134, vs 1,105 last month. 1985/86 at 1,045, vs 1,045 last month. Cotton -- in mln 480 lb bales - Stocks, July 31, 1987, at 5.40, vs 5.49 last month. Stocks July 31, 1986, at 9.35, vs 9.35 last month. Exports in 1986/87 season at 6.66, vs 6.76 last month. Exports in 1985/86 - 1.96, vs 1.96 last month. Soybeans -- in mln bushels - Stocks, Aug 31, 1987, projected at 610, vs 635 last month. Stocks Aug 31, 1986, at 536, vs 536 last month. Soybean crushings during 1986/87 - 1,130, vs 1,115 last month. Crushings in 1985/86 at 1,053, vs 1,053 last month. Exports in 1986/87 season at 700, vs 700 last month. Exports in 1985/86 at 740, vs 740 last month. Soybean Oil -- mln lbs - Stocks on Sept 30, 1987, at 1,360, vs 1,200 last month. Stocks on Sept 30, 1986, at 947, vs 947 last month. Exports in 1986/87 at 1,350, vs 1,350 last month. Exports in 1985/86 at 1,257, vs 1,257 last month. Soybean Cake/Meal -- thousand short tons - Stocks, Sept 30, 1987, at 270, vs 315 last month. Stocks, Sept 30, 1986, at 212, vs 212 last month. Exports in 1986/87 season at 6,500, vs 6,350 last month. Exports in 1985/86 at 6,036, vs 6,008 last month. Reuter 
U.S. CITRUS CROP ESTIMATE -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated 1986/87 citrus production, as follows (in boxes) -- Total U.S. orange crop (excluding Florida Temples) -- 190,050,000 boxes, vs 190,850,000 boxes last month and 176,410,000 boxes in the 1985/86 crop. Florida oranges (excluding Temples) -- 122,900,000 boxes, vs 124,000,000 last month and 119,000,000 boxes in 1985/86. Florida Temples -- 3,400,000 boxes, vs 3,400,000 last month and 2,950,000 boxes in 1985/86. The department's estimates are based on April 1 crop conditions. Reuter 
USDA ORANGE JUICE YIELD ESTIMATE

The U.S. Agriculture Department projected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of frozen concentrated orange juice per box (42.0 degree brix equivalent) from Florida's 1986/87 crop. That compares with 1.47 gallons per box previously and 1.38 gallons per box from the 1985/86 crop. The crop reporting board said the estimates for the 1986/87 season are based on maturity and yields tests as of April 1. Reuter 
USSR ADDS U.S. CORN TO COMMITMENTS - USDA

The Soviet Union has added 175,600 tonnes of U.S. corn to its previous commitments for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR Grain Supply Agreement, which began October 1, 1986, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. According to the department's Export Sales Report, covering transactions in the week ended April 2, corn transactions consisted of 140,600 tonnes of new sales and changes in destinations for 35,000 tonnes. Total corn commitments to the USSR for delivery in the fourth agreement year amount to 2,825,600 tonnes. The Soviets have not purchased wheat or soybeans in the fourth year of the agreement. Reuter 
USDA SPRING POTATO ESTIMATES

The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated 1987 spring potato production, based on April 1 conditions, at 19,267,000 cwts (100 lbs), vs 19,822,000 cwts indicated last year. The department estimated spring potato area for harvest at 79,100 acres, vs 76,700 acres estimated last month and 75,900 acres harvested last year. Spring potato yield per harvested acre is forecast at 244 cwt per acre, vs 261 cwt per acre a year ago, USDA said. Reuter 
USDA REVISES 1986 SUMMER POTATOES

The U.S. Agriculture Department made the following revisions for 1986 crop summer potatoes -- Production -- 21,003,000 cwt (100 lbs), vs 20,900,000 cwt estimated previously. Acreage for harvest -- 95,700 acres, vs 95,800 acres estimated previously. Yield per harvested acre -- 219 cwt per acre, vs 218 cwt per acre previously estimated, the department said. Reuter 
USDA DETAILS FREE GRAIN STOCKS UNDER LOAN

The U.S. Agriculture Department gave projected carryover free stocks of feedgrains, corn and wheat under loans, with comparisons, as follows, in mln bushels, except feedgrains, which is in mln tonnes -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Under Regular Nine Month Loan -- WHEAT 225 300 678 678 FEEDGRAINS 52.1 68.1 75.7 75.7 CORN 1,800 2,400 2,589 2,589 Special Producer Storage Loan Program -- WHEAT 165 150 163 163 FEEDGRAINS 7.0 6.7 5.3 5.3 CORN 200 200 147 147 Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES SOVIET WHEAT, COARSE GRAINS

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast the Soviet 1986/87 wheat crop at 92.30 mln tonnes, vs 92.30 mln tonnes last month. It put the 1985/86 crop at 78.10 mln tonnes, vs 78.10 mln tonnes last month. Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain production is estimated at 103.30 mln tonnes, vs 103.30 mln tonnes last month. Production in 1985/86 is projected at 99.99 mln tonnes, vs 100.00 mln tonnes last month. USSR wheat imports are forecast at 15.00 mln tonnes in 1986/87, vs 15.00 mln tonnes last month. Imports in 1985/86 are put at 15.70 mln tonnes, vs 15.70 mln tonnes last month. USDA estimated Soviet 1986/87 coarse grain imports at 12.00 mln tonnes, vs 10.00 mln tonnes last month, and 1985/86 imports at 13.70 mln tonnes, vs 13.70 mln tonnes last month. USDA said Soviet coarse grain imports include 1986/87 corn imports, which it forecast at 8.00 mln tonnes, vs 6.00 mln tonnes last month. Corn imports in 1985/86 are estimated at 10.40 mln tonnes, vs 10.40 mln last month. Total Soviet grain imports in 1986/87, at 28.0 mln tonnes, include one mln tonnes of miscellaneous grains. Reuter 
WHEAT BY CLASS BREAKDOWN

The U.S. Agriculture Department gave the 1986/87 breakdown of supply and distribution for wheats by classes, in mln bushels, with comparisons, as follows. HARD WINTER -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 1,009 1,009 717 717 Production 1,018 1,018 1,230 1,230 Ttl Supply-X 2,027 2,027 1,947 1,947 Domestic Use 599 579 543 543 Exports 450 475 395 395 Total Use 1,049 1,054 938 938 End Stocks 978 973 1,009 1,009 Note - Season begins June 1. X-Includes imports HARD SPRING -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 498 498 371 371 Production 451 451 460 460 Ttl Supply-X 956 956 838 838 Domestic Use 218 192 174 174 Exports 200 190 166 166 Total Use 418 382 340 340 End Stocks 538 574 498 498 Note - Season begins June 1. X-Includes imports. SOFT RED -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 79 79 64 64 Production 290 290 368 368 Ttl Supply-X 369 369 432 432 Domestic Use 181 193 204 204 Exports 120 120 149 149 Total Use 301 313 353 353 End Stocks 68 56 79 79 Note - Season begins June 1. X-Includes imports WHITE -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 198 198 173 173 Production 232 232 254 254 Ttl Supply-X 433 433 430 430 Domestic Use 82 83 80 80 Exports 170 160 152 152 Total Use 252 243 232 232 End Stocks 181 190 198 198 Note - Season begins June 1. X-Includes imports. DURUM -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 121 121 100 100 Production 95 95 113 113 Ttl Supply-X 221 221 218 218 Domestic Use 54 58 44 44 Exports 85 80 53 53 Total Use 139 138 97 97 End Stocks 82 83 121 121 Note - Season begins June 1. X-Includes Imports. Reuter 
USDA FORECASTS BRAZIL/ARGENTINE SOYBEAN CROPS

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast Brazil's 1986/87 soybean crop at 17.00 mln tonnes, vs 17.00 estimated last month. It put the 1985/86 crop at 13.90 mln tonnes, vs 13.70 mln last month. The department forecast Argentina's 1986/87 soybean crop at 7.70 mln tonnes, vs 7.70 mln last month. It projected the 1985/86 crop at 7.30 mln tonnes, vs 7.30 mln last month. Brazil's 1986/87 soybean exports were forecast at 2.50 mln tonnes, vs 2.50 mln tonnes estimated last month. USDA projected 1985/86 exports at 1.20 mln tonnes, vs 1.20 mln last month. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES ARGENTINE COARSE GRAIN, WHEAT

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast Argentina's 1986/87 coarse grain crop at 13.99 mln tonnes, vs 15.44 mln tonnes last month. It estimated the 1985/86 crop at 17.06 mln tonnes, vs 17.14 mln last month. USDA forecast Argentina's 1986/87 wheat crop at 9.00 mln tonnes, vs 9.00 mln tonnes last month, while the 1985/86 crop was projected at 8.50 mln tonnes, vs 8.50 mln last month. USDA forecast Argentine 1986/87 coarse grain exports at 6.60 mln tonnes, vs 7.73 mln tonnes last month, and projected 1985/86 exports at 9.43 mln tonnes, vs 9.58 mln last month. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES AUSTRALIA WHEAT CROP

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast Australia's 1986/87 wheat crop at 16.70 mln tonnes, vs 17.30 mln tonnes last month. It estimated 1985/86 output at 16.13 mln tonnes, vs 16.13 mln last month. Australian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 14.50 mln tonnes, vs 14.50 mln tonnes last month, while exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 15.96 mln tonnes, vs 15.96 mln last month. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES CHINA WHEAT

The U.S. Agriculture Department projected China's 1986/87 wheat crop at 90.30 mln tonnes, vs 88.50 mln tonnes last month. It estimated the 1985/86 crop at 85.81 mln tonnes, vs 85.81 mln last month. USDA projected China's 1986/87 wheat imports at 7.00 mln tonnes, vs 7.00 mln tonnes last month, and estimated 1985/86 imports at 6.60 mln tonnes, vs 6.60 mln last month. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES CANADIAN CROPS

The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated Canada's 1986/87 wheat crop at 31.85 mln tonnes, vs 31.85 mln tonnes last month. It estimated 1985/86 output at 24.25 mln tonnes, vs 24.25 mln last month. Canadian 1986/87 coarse grain production is projected at 27.62 mln tonnes, vs 27.62 mln tonnes last month. Production in 1985/86 is estimated at 24.95 mln tonnes, vs 24.95 mln last month. Canadian wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 19.00 mln tonnes, vs 19.00 mln tonnes last month. Exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 17.72 mln tonnes, vs 17.71 mln last month. Reuter 
NET CHANGE IN EXPORT COMMITMENTS -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department gave the net change in export commitments, including sales, cancellations, foreign purchases and cumulative exports, in the current seasons through the week ended April 2, with comparisons, as follows, in tonnes, except as noted -- 4/2/87 Prev Week All Wheat 119,800 368,300 Corn 1,001,900 927,000 Soybeans 240,500 300,900 Soy Cake/Meal 117,700 170,200 Soybean Oil 2,400-x 8,100 Cotton-Y 60,200 31,900 x-minus total. Y-running bales. The indicated totals include reported commitments to both named and unnamed destinations, sales on exporters' own account and optional origin sales plus actual exports already made during the respective marketing seasons. The USDA cautions that reported outstanding sales are subject to modification, deferral or cancellation and it is unlikely that all reported quantities will be exported. USDA gave detailed breakdowns for the 1986/87 and 1987/88 seasons as follows, in thousand tonnes unless stated -- (A) - Firm sales to a declared destination. (B) - Ultimate destination not yet declared. (C) - Sales made on exporters' own account. (D) - Exporter holds option to fill commitment with supplies from origins other than U.S. (E) - Accumulated exports since season began based on data reported by exporters. (F) - Indicated total for season. (G) - USDA-projected exports for season. Note -- Totals may not add due to rounding. ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/3/87 Prev Wk Named-A 3,157.6 3,684.1 1,591.4 1,635.6 Unnamed-B 143.8 144.3 87.1 57.1 E.O.A.-C 9.5 9.5 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 3,310.9 3,837.9 1,679.0 1,692.7 Ay Expd-E 21,044.6 20,433.4 Ind Ttl-F 24,355.5 24,271.3 USDAPRJ-G 27,900.0 27,900.0 SOYBEANS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 1,774.7 1,780.3 215.9 215.9 Unnamed-B 500.3 524.8 nil 30.0 E.O.A.-C 18.4 18.4 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 2,293.4 2,323.5 215.9 245.9 Ay Expd-E 14,334.2 14,183.2 Ind Ttl-F 16,627.6 16,506.7 USDAPRJ-G 19,050.0 19,050.0 CORN 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev WK Named-A 8,559.8 8,684.8 772.1 268.8 Unnamed-B 945.7 920.1 nil nil E.O.A-C 90.8 66.9 nil nil O.O.P-D 138.0 175.0 nil nil Gr Total 9,734.3 9,846.9 772.1 268.8 Ay Expd-E 20,296.0 19,293.8 Ind Ttl-F 30,030.3 29,140.7 USDAPRJ-G 31,750.0 31,750.0 SORGHUM 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev WK Named-A 875.6 805.1 nil nil Unnamed-B 151.2 151.2 10.2-x nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-D 114.5 138.3 nil nil Gr Total 1,141.3 1,094.6 10.2-x nil Ay Expd-E 3,222.5 3,149.7 Ind Ttl-F 4,363.8 4,244.3 USDAPRJ-G 5,720.0 5,720.0 x-minus total WHEAT PRODUCTS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 321.0 401.9 nil nil Unnamed-B nil nil nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 321.0 401.9 nil nil Ay Expd-E 926.9 840.9 Ind Ttl-F 1,348.2 1,242.8 Note - Includes bulgur, semolina, farina, rolled, cracked and crushed wheat. SOYBEAN OIL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 8.8 10.4 nil nil Unnamed-B 7.0 10.5 nil nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 15.8 20.9 nil nil Ay Expd-E 138.4 135.8 Ind Ttl-F 154.2 156.7 USDAPRJ-G 610.0 610.0 SOYBEAN CAKE AND MEAL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 788.0 869.7 50.7 48.4 Unnamed-B 76.0 94.0 nil nil E.O.A-C 2.7 6.1 nil nil O.O.P-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 866.7 969.8 50.7 48.4 Ay Expd-E 4,098.0 3,880.6 Ind Ttl-F 4,964.7 4,850.4 USDAPRJ-G 5,760.0 5,760.0 COTTONSEED OIL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 7.4 7.2 nil nil Unnamed-B 0.3 0.3 nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D 7.8 7.8 nil nil Gr Total 15.4 15.2 nil nil ALL UPLAND DOMESTIC RAW COTTON-Y 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 2,007.9 2,076.1 468.2 457.2 Unnamed-B 20.3 20.2 nil nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-C nil nil nil nil Gr Total 2,028.2 2,096.3 468.2 457.2 Ay Expd-E 4,333.1 4,204.7 Ind Ttl-F 6,361.3 6,301.0 USDAPRJ-G 6,335.0 6,335.0 Y-In thousand running bales. BARLEY 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 559.5 584.5 nil nil Unnamed-B 12.7 12.7 nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D 25.0 25.0 nil nil Gr Total 597.1 622.1 nil nil Ay Expt-E 2,464.6 2,440.7 Ind Ttl-F 3,061.7 3,062.8 USDAPRJ-G 3,270.0 3,270.0 OATS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A nil nil nil nil Unnamed-B nil nil nil nil E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total nil nil nil nil Ay Expd-E 2.4 2.4 Ind Ttl-F 2.4 2.4 USDAPRJ-G 30.0 30.0 RICE 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 347.6 369.1 nil nil Unnamed-B 1.0 1.0 nil nil E.O.A-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 348.6 370.1 nil nil Ay Expd-E 1,718.8 1,688.2 Ind Ttl-F 2,067.4 2,058.3 USDAPRJ-G 2,580.0 2,580.0 HARD RED WINTER WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 1,738.0 2,019.7 893.0 943.0 Unnamed-B 80.5 70.5 107.6 77.2 E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 1,818.5 2,090.2 1,000.6 1,020.2 Ay Exp-E 8,332.1 7,974.5 Ind Tl-F 10,150.6 10,064.8 WHITE WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 548.5 635.6 58.0 58.0 Unnamed-B 19.0-x 19.0-x 6.0-x 6.0-x E.O.A.-C nil nil nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 529.5 616.6 52.0 52.0 Ay Exp-E 3,831.5 3,757.7 Ind Tl-F 4,361.0 4,374.3 x - denotes minus figure HARD RED SPRING WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 576.6 620.6 164.7 164.7 Unnamed-B 29.6 16.0 nil nil E.O.A.-C 0.9 0.9 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 607.1 637.5 164.7 164.7 Ay Exp-E 4,312.4 4,247.6 Ind Tl-F 4,919.5 4,885.1 DURUM WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 166.6 280.3 93.4 93.4 Unnamed-B 52.8 76.9 nil nil E.O.A.-C 2.8 2.8 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 222.2 360.0 93.4 93.4 Ay Exp-E 1,842.6 1,727.5 Ind Tl-F 2,064.8 2,087.5 SOFT RED WINTER WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk Named-A 127.8 127.8 382.3 376.5 Unnamed-B nil nil 14.0-x 14.0-x E.O.A.-C 5.8 5.8 nil nil O.O.P.-D nil nil nil nil Gr Total 133.6 133.6 368.3 362.5 Ay Exp-E 2,726.0 2,726.0 Ind Tl-F 2,859.6 2,859.6 x-minus figure Country and destinations of the identified sales of commodities reported by exporters in week ended April 2 for the respective marketing seasons were detailed by the USDA as follows, with comparisons for the previous week, in thousands of tonnes, except where noted-- ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. nil nil 50.0 50.0 Other West Europe 218.8 236.8 nil nil East Europe 261.0 346.0 25.0 25.0 ALL WHEAT Continued 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk USSR nil nil nil nil Japan 490.4 662.2 nil nil China 90.0 90.0 910.0 910.0 Taiwan 115.0 141.0 144.0 144.0 Other Asia and Oceania 654.9 730.9 28.6 78.6 Africa 959.5 1,115.0 167.1 167.1 Western Hemisphere 367.9 362.1 266.7 260.9 SOYBEANS 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 302.2 317.7 91.4 91.4 Other West Europe 25.0 25.0 nil nil East Europe 101.0 101.0 nil nil Japan 355.4 330.5 nil nil China nil nil nil nil Taiwan 472.0 499.0 87.0 87.0 Other Asia and Oceania 164.6 187.7 nil nil Africa nil nil nil nil Western Hemisphere 354.4 391.5 37.5 37.5 SOYBEAN OIL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 1.5 1.5 nil nil India nil nil nil nil Other Asia and Oceania nil nil nil nil Africa nil nil nil nil Western Hemisphere 7.3 8.9 nil nil SOYBEAN CAKE/MEAL 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 301.7 350.7 47.2 45.0 Other West Europe nil nil nil nil East Europe nil 36.0 nil nil Japan nil 3.5 nil nil Other Asia and Oceania 25.0 40.0 nil nil Africa 30.2 38.0 nil nil Western Hemisphere 431.0 401.5 3.4 3.4 CORN 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 82.5 22.5 0.2 0.2 Other West Europe nil 0.8 nil nil E. Europe 94.0 50.0 50.0 50.0 USSR 2,432.7 2,543.8 nil nil Japan 2,767.4 2,787.8 52.4 21.0 China 495.0 555.0 nil nil Taiwan 791.0 836.0 390.0 170.0 Other Asia and Oceania 721.7 615.2 250.0 nil Africa 125.0 195.5 nil nil WestHem 1,050.5 1,114.0 29.4 27.6 UPLAND COTTON (In thousand bales) 1986/87 1987/88 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/2/87 Prev Wk E.C. 260.9 266.1 97.9 95.0 Other West Europe 62.2 66.2 8.7 8.7 E. Europe 3.1 3.1 nil nil Japan 445.8 484.1 72.3 70.1 Taiwan 377.9 390.4 41.6 39.5 Other Asia and Oceania 741.7 783.4 244.5 241.1 Africa 16.7 13.4 nil nil Western Hemisphere 99.6 69.5 3.2 2.7 Reuter 
HOUSE PANEL WANTS PENTAGON MANAGE U.S. STOCKPILE

The House Armed Services Committee has voted for a transfer in the management of stockpiled materials for national defense to the U.S. Defense Secretary. The committee also voted for legally-binding quantity and quality requirements on the materials, mostly metals. The measures are a part of the Defense Authorization Bill which will be voted on in the House next month. The purpose of the measures, passed by the committee yesterday, is to improve stockpile management and discourage sell-offs of materials that could jeopardize strategic needs, a staff member of the committee told Reuters. "They (the stockpiles) stand to gain the most by being managed properly," said the staffer. "Management of the stockpile over the last 10 years has been atrocious." Responsibility for stockpile management now belongs to a White House agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The staffer said that under the measures passed by the committee the Secretary of Defense would have more influence over decisions to keep or sell strategic stockpile materials. The administration has proposed a goal of 700 million dlrs worth of strategic materials to be held in the stockpile. The stockpile now contains around 10 billion dlrs of materials. He said several agencies currently helped FEMA to manage the stockpile and decide how much to sell to help the deficit. These agencies included the Office of Management and Budget and the Departments of Interior and Commerce, he said. The committee believed the shared involvement in stockpile management was counter-productive, he said. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES EUROPEAN COMMUNITY CROPS

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast the European Community's 1986/87 wheat crop at 71.60 mln tonnes, vs 71.50 mln tonnes last month. It estimated 1985/86 output at 71.70 mln tonnes, vs 71.71 mln last month. E.C. 1986/87 coarse grain production is projected at 81.22 mln tonnes, vs 81.19 mln tonnes last month. The 1985/86 crop is estimated at 88.21 mln tonnes, vs 88.28 mln last month. E.C. wheat exports in 1986/87 are forecast at 28.22 mln tonnes, vs 28.31 mln tonnes last month. Exports in 1985/86 are estimated at 27.77 mln tonnes, vs 27.62 last month. Reuter 
U.S. SUPPLY/DEMAND DETAILED BY USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department made the following supply/demand projections for the 1986/87 seasons, in mln bushels, with comparisons, unless noted -- CORN -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) -- Planted 76.7 76.7 83.4 83.4 Harvested 69.2 69.2 75.2 75.2 Yield (bu) 119.3 119.3 118.0 118.0 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stock 4,040 4,040 1,648 1,648 Production 8,253 8,253 8,877 8,877 Total-X 12,295 12,295 10,536 10,536 X-Includes imports. CORN (cont.) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage: Feed 4,500 4,300 4,095 4,126 Other 1,180 1,150 1,160 1,129 Ttl Domest 5,680 5,450 5,255 5,255 Exports 1,375 1,250 1,241 1,241 Total Use 7,055 6,700 6,496 6,496 End Stocks 5,240 5,595 4,040 4,040 Farmer Reser 1,400 1,300 564 564 CCC Stocks 1,700 1,500 546 546 Free Stocks 2,140 2,795 2,930 2,930 AvgPrice 1.35-1.65 1.35-1.65 2.23 2.23 Note - Price in dlrs per bu. Corn season begins Sept 1. ALL WHEAT - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) -- Planted 72.0 72.0 75.6 75.6 Harvested 60.7 60.7 64.7 64.7 Yield 34.4 34.4 37.5 37.5 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stcks 1,905 1,905 1,425 1,425 Production 2,087 2,087 2,425 2,425 Total Supply-X 4,007 4,007 3,865 3,865 X - Includes imports. ALL WHEAT 1986/87 1985/86 (cont.) 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage: Food 700 690 678 678 Seed 84 90 93 93 Feed 350 325 274 274 Ttl Domest 1,134 1,105 1,045 1,045 Exports 1,025 1,025 915 915 Total Use 2,159 2,130 1,960 1,960 End Stocks 1,848 1,877 1,905 1,905 Farmer Reser 475 450 433 433 CCC Stocks 950 950 602 602 Free Stocks 423 477 870 870 Avg Price 2.30-40 2.30-40 3.08 3.08 Note - Price in dlrs per bushel. Wheat season begins June 1. SOYBEANS - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) -- Planted 61.5 61.5 63.1 61.1 Harvested 59.4 59.4 61.6 61.6 Yield (bu) 33.8 33.8 34.1 34.1 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stocks 536 536 316 316 Production 2,007 2,007 2,099 2,099 Total 2,543 2,543 2,415 2,415 SOYBEANS (cont.) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage -- Crushings 1,130 1,115 1,053 1,053 Exports 700 700 740 740 Seed, Feed and Residual 103 93 86 86 Total Use 1,933 1,908 1,879 1,879 End Stocks 610 635 536 536 Avg Price 4.60-4.80 4.60-4.80 5.05 5.05 Note - Average price in dlrs per bushel. Soybean season begins June 1. FEEDGRAINS - X 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) -- Planted 119.8 119.8 128.1 128.1 Harvested 102.0 102.0 111.8 111.8 Yld (tonnes) 2.48 2.48 2.45 2.45 Supply (mln tonnes) -- Start Stocks 126.4 126.4 57.5 57.5 Production 252.4 252.4 274.4 274.4 Imports 0.6 0.6 0.9 0.9 Total 379.4 379.4 332.7 332.7 X - Includes corn, sorghum, barley, oats. FEEDGRAINS - X (cont.) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage: Feed 140.6 136.2 134.8 135.5 Other 35.8 35.0 35.0 34.3 Ttl Domest 176.4 171.2 169.8 169.8 Exports 43.9 40.8 36.6 36.6 Total Use 220.3 211.9 206.4 206.4 End Stocks 159.1 167.5 126.4 126.4 Farmer Reser 39.0 36.5 16.6 16.6 CCC Stocks 55.2 49.5 20.4 20.4 Free Stocks 64.8 81.5 89.3 89.3 X - Includes corn, sorghum, oats, barley. Seasons for oats, barley began June 1, corn and sorghum Sept 1. SOYBEAN OIL - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Supply (mln lbs) -- Start Stcks 947 947 632 632 Production 12,263 12,103 11,617 11,617 Imports Nil Nil 8 8 Total 13,210 13,050 12,257 12,257 Note - 1985/86 production estimates based on October year crush of 1,060 mln bushels. SOYBEAN OIL (cont.) - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage (mln lbs) -- Domestic 10,500 10,500 10,053 10,053 Exports 1,350 1,350 1,257 1,257 Total 11,850 11,850 11,310 11,310 End Stcks 1,360 1,200 947 947 AvgPrice 14.5-16.0 15.0-17.0 18.00 18.00 Note - Average price in cents per lb. Season for soybean oil begins Oct 1. SOYBEAN CAKE/MEAL, in thousand short tons -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 212 212 387 387 Production 26,558 26,203 24,951 24,951 Total 26,770 26,415 25,338 25,338 Note - 1985/86 production estimates based on October year crush of 1,060 mln bushels. SOY CAKE/MEAL (cont.) - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage (thous short tons) -- Domestic 20,000 19,750 19,090 19,118 Exports 6,500 6,350 6,036 6,008 Total 26,500 26,100 25,126 25,126 End Stcks 270 315 212 212 AvgPrice 145-150 145-150 154.90 154.90 Note - Price in dlrs per short ton. Season for soybean cake and meal begins Oct 1. COTTON -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Area (mln acres) -- Planted 10.06 10.06 10.68 10.68 Harvested 8.49 8.49 10.23 10.23 Yield (lbs) 549 553 630 630 Supply (mln 480-lb bales) -- Start Stks-X 9.35 9.35 4.10 4.10 Production 9.70 9.79 13.43 13.43 Ttl Supply-Y 19.06 19.14 17.57 17.57 X - Based on Census Bureau data. Y - Includes imports. COTTON (cont.) - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage -- Domestic 7.10 7.01 6.40 6.40 Exports 6.66 6.76 1.96 1.96 Total 13.76 13.77 8.36 8.36 End Stocks 5.40 5.49 9.35 9.35 Avge Price 51.7-X 51.7-X 56.50 56.50 X - 1986/87 price is weighted average for first five months of marketing year, not a projection for 1986/87. Average price in cents per lb. Cotton season begins August 1. RICE 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Acreage (mln acres) -- Planted 2.40 2.40 2.51 2.51 Harvested 2.38 2.38 2.49 2.49 Yield (lbs) 5,648 5,648 5,414 5,414 Supply (mln cwts) -- Start Stcks 77.3 77.3 64.7 64.7 Production 134.4 134.4 134.9 134.9 Imports 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 Total 213.9 213.9 201.8 201.8 RICE (cont.) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage (mln cwts) -- Domestic 67.0 67.0 65.8 65.8 Exports 80.0 80.0 58.7 58.7 Total-Y 147.0 147.0 124.5 124.5 End Stocks 66.9 66.9 77.3 77.3 CCC Stocks 42.9 42.9 41.5 41.5 Free Stocks 24.0 24.0 35.8 35.8 AvgPrice 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.25 6.53 6.53 Note - Average price in dlrs per CWT. Y-Rough equivalent. N.A.-Not Available, USDA revising price definition due to marketing loan. Rice season begins August 1. SORGHUM 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Yield (bu) 67.7 67.7 66.8 66.8 Supply (mln bu) -- Start Stcks 551 551 300 300 Production 942 942 1,120 1,120 Total 1,493 1,493 1,420 1,420 Usage (mln bu) -- Feed 550 575 662 662 Other 30 30 29 29 Ttl Domest 580 605 691 691 SORGHUM (cont.) - 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Exports 225 225 178 178 Total Use 805 830 869 869 End Stocks 688 663 551 551 Avge Price 1.30-50 1.30-50 1.93 1.93 Note - Price in dlrs per bushel. Sorghum season begins Sept 1. BARLEY 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Yield (bu) 50.8 50.8 51.0 51.0 Start Stocks 325 325 247 247 Production 610 610 591 591 Imports 5 5 9 9 Total 941 941 847 847 BARLEY (cont.) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/15/87 04/09/87 03/15/87 Usage (mln bu) -- Feed 300 300 333 333 Other 175 175 167 167 Ttl Domest 475 475 500 500 Exports 150 150 22 22 Total Use 625 625 522 522 End Stocks 316 316 325 325 AvgPrice 1.45-65 1.45-65 1.98 1.98 Note - Average price in dlrs per bushel. Barley season begins June 1. OATS - in mln bushels 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Yield (bu) 56.0 56.0 63.7 63.7 Start Stcks 184 184 180 180 Production 385 385 521 521 Imports 30 30 28 28 Total 598 598 729 729 OATS, in mln bushels (cont.) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Usage -- Feed 400 400 460 460 Other 85 85 83 83 Ttl Domes 485 485 543 543 Exports 2 2 2 2 Total 487 487 545 545 End Stcks 111 111 184 184 AvgPrice 1.00-20 1.00-20 1.23 1.23 Note - Average price in dlrs per bushel. Oats season begins June 1. LONG GRAIN RICE, in mln CWTs (100 lbs) -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Harvested -- Acres (mln) 1.83 1.83 1.94 1.94 Yield (lbs) 5,358 5,358 5,168 5,168 Start Stks 49.3 49.3 37.7 37.7 Production 97.8 97.8 100.4 100.4 Ttl Supply 148.6 148.6 140.1 140.1 Note -- Starting Stocks does not include broken kernels -- Supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns. Total Supply includes imports but not broken kernels. LONG GRAIN RICE, in mln CWTs (100 lbs), cont. -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Domestic Use 43.0 43.0 48.8 48.8 Exports 65.0 60.0 42.0 42.0 Total Use 108.0 103.0 90.8 90.8 End Stocks-X 40.6 45.6 49.3 49.3 AvgPric 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.24 6.86 6.86 Note - Average price in dlrs per cwt. X-Broken kernels not included -- supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns. Rice season begins August 1. MEDIUM, SHORT GRAIN RICE - in mln CWTs (100 lbs) -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Harvested -- Acres (mln) 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 Yield (lbs) 6,651 6,651 6,258 6,258 Start Stks 26.7 26.7 25.7 25.7 Production 36.6 36.6 34.5 34.5 Ttl Supply 65.3 65.3 61.7 61.7 Note -- Starting Stocks does not include broken kernels -- Supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns. Total Supply includes imports but not broken kernels. MEDIUM, SHORT GRAIN RICE, in mln CWTs (100 lbs), cont. -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Domestic Use 24.0 24.0 17.0 17.0 Exports 15.0 20.0 16.7 16.7 Total Use 39.0 44.0 33.7 33.7 End Stocks-X 24.5 19.5 26.7 26.7 AvgPric 3.45-4.25 3.45-4.25 5.91 5.91 Note - Average price in dlrs per CWT. X-Broken kernels not included - supply minus use does not equal ending stocks in breakdowns. Rice season begins August 1. NOTES ON U.S. SUPPLY/DEMAND TABLES -- N.A. - Not available. -- Totals may not add due to rounding. -- Figures for 1986/87 are midpoint of USDA range. -- Feed usage for corn, wheat, soybean, feedgrains, sorghum, barley, oats includes residual amount. -- Residual amount included in rice and medium/short grain rice domestic usage. -- Rice, long grain, and medium/short grain rice average price for 1985/86 estimates and 1986/87 projections are market prices and exclude cash retained under the marketing loan since April, 1986. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES USSR COTTON CROP

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast the Soviet 1986/87 cotton crop at 11.20 mln bales (480-lbs net), vs 11.20 mln bales forecast last month. The department also estimated the 1985/86 Soviet cotton crop at 12.10 mln bales, vs 12.10 mln bales last month. Reuter 
USDA ESTIMATES SOUTH AFRICA CORN CROP, EXPORTS

The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast South Africa's 1986/87 corn crop at 8.50 mln tonnes, vs 9.50 mln tonnes last month. It estimated the 1985/86 crop at 8.08 mln, vs 8.08 mln last month. USDA forecast South African 1986/87 corn exports at 2.10 mln tonnes, vs 3.00 mln tonnes last month, and 1985/86 exports at 2.75 mln tonnes, vs 2.75 mln tonnes last month. Reuter 
PROCTER AND GAMBLE <PG> SETS TURKISH VENTURE

Procter and Gamble Co said its Swiss subsidiary, Procter and Gamble AG, has concluded an agreement with Mintax Deterjan Sanayii AS to establish a joint venture in Turkey. The venture, 50 pct owned by Procter and Gamble, has been approved by the Turkish government. It will market consumer products in Turkey. Other terms were not disclosed. Privately held Mintax, based in Istanbul, has 900 employees and makes laundry detergents, dishwashing products, shampoo, fabric softeners and deodorant. Its 1986 sales about 50 mln dlrs. Reuter 
AMEX SEAT SELLS FOR RECORD 380,000 DLRS

The American Stock Exchange said a seat on the exchange sold for 380,000 dlrs, a record price that is 5,000 dlrs higher than the previous sale on Feb 17. The current bid is 330,000 dlrs and the offer, 425,000 dlrs, the exchange said. Reuter 
SEASONAL EXPORTS REPORTED BY U.S. EXPORTERS

Exports of the following commodities between start of current seasons and April 2, with comparisons, as reported to USDA by exporters, in thousand tonnes, unless noted -- 4/2/87 Prev Wk 4/3/86 Wheat 21,044.6 20,398.3 19,725.8 Soybeans 14,334.2 14,063.5 14,698.4 Corn 20,296.0 19,194.6 25,182.6-x Sorghum 3,222.5 3,149.7 3,168.9-x Soybean Oil 138.4 135.8 179.9 Soybean Meal 4,098.0 3,880.6 3,141.3 Cotton 4,333.1 4,204.7 1,510.4 X-2,059,300 tonnes of corn and 763,800 tonnes of sorghum added to reflect change in marketing year to Sept-Aug. Reuter 
SOVIET UNION TO IMPORT MORE GRAIN IN 86/87-USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department increased its estimate of 1986/87 grain purchases by the Soviet Union to 28 mln tonnes, up two mln tonnes from last month. In its monthly report on the Soviet grain situation, the USDA said imports will be higher than earlier estimated because Soviet grain buyers have been actively purchasing in the last month. USDA said the increased purchasing is "somewhat surprising" because of recent higher Soviet crop estimates. All of the increase in estimated imports will be in corn, USDA said. Of the 28 mln tonnes total, 15 mln tonnes will be wheat, 12 mln tonnes coarse grains, and the remaining one mln tonnes miscellaneous grains and pulses, USDA said. USDA noted that the Soviet winter grain crop suffered through a severe winter and spring field work has been delayed. The severe winter "is believed to have resulted in above average winter-kill," USDA said. Some grain trade analysts have said abnormal winter losses maybe one reason why the Soviet Union has been actively buying grain recently. USDA said Moscow already has purchased over 25 mln tonnes grain for delivery in 1986/87, including 14 mln tonnes wheat and 12 mln tonnes coarse grain. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 200,000 TONNES WHEAT  SOLD TO JORDAN FOR 1987/88 DELIVERY



U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 300,000 TONNES  SOYBEAN MEAL TO IRAQ FOR SPLIT DELIVERY



U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 100,000 TONNES CORN  SOLD TO ALGERIA FOR 1986/87 DELIVERY



WORLD SUPPLY/DEMAND ESTIMATES ISSUED BY USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department made the following 1986/87 projections in its world Supply/Demand report, with comparisons, in mln tonnes, except where noted -- Total World Grain 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Produc 1,682.31 1,686.11 1,663.69 1,663.70 Total Supply 2,025.71 2,028.45 1,919.18 1,920.13 Trade-X 212.15 211.89 204.42 203.92 Usage 1,635.01 1,630.40 1,575.78 1,577.79 End Stks 390.70 398.05 343.40 342.34 X-Based on export estimate. All Wheat 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stks 137.05 136.48 125.54 125.87 Production 529.20 528.40 498.97 498.81 Imports 97.57 98.27 94.56 94.36 Feed Use 101.79 100.82 90.19 90.56 Total Domes 517.26 514.89 487.45 488.20 Exports 101.08 101.20 95.92 95.76 End Stocks 148.99 149.99 137.05 136.48 Note - World imports/exports may not balance due to differing marketing years, grains in transit and reporting discrepancies. Coarse Grain 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 181.64 181.10 107.80 108.40 Production 835.21 838.82 844.60 844.84 Imports 95.66 93.77 95.70 95.18 Feed Use 514.07 510.20 510.20 510.80 Total Domes 796.33 793.64 770.76 772.14 Exports 98.97 98.47 96.02 95.76 End Stocks 220.52 226.28 181.64 181.10 Note - World imports/exports may not balance due to differing marketing years, grain in transit and reporting discrepancies. Corn (Mln Tonnes) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 123.08 123.11 61.09 61.75 Production 477.26 480.29 481.86 481.92 Imports 61.03 58.59 62.12 62.08 Feed Use 295.49 289.47 286.53 287.42 Ttl Domes 444.78 439.80 419.88 420.55 Exports 62.80 62.10 62.53 62.15 End Stocks 155.56 163.61 123.08 123.11 Note - World imports/exports may not balance due to differing marketing years, grain in transit and reporting discrepancies. Soybeans 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 23.03 22.84 17.59 17.58 Production 99.98 99.43 96.74 96.53 Imports 26.21 26.27 27.08 27.08 Crushings 79.69 79.33 76.16 76.15 Ttl Domes 97.53 96.40 92.36 92.34 Exports 26.45 26.43 26.02 26.01 End Stocks 25.23 25.71 23.03 22.84 Note - Imports and exports do not balance due to differing marketing years and time lags between reported exports and imports. Soybean Meal 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 2.55 2.47 2.79 2.74 Production 62.71 62.40 60.09 60.09 Imports 23.47 23.49 23.48 23.47 Consumption 62.69 62.49 61.06 61.10 Exports 23.51 23.39 22.76 22.74 End Stocks 2.52 2.47 2.55 2.47 Note - Imports and exports may not balance due to differing marketing years and time lags between reported exports and imports. Soybean Oil 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 1.61 1.51 1.37 1.36 Production 14.20 14.13 13.65 13.66 Imports 3.31 3.29 3.08 3.05 Consumption 14.02 14.03 13.33 13.40 Exports 3.33 3.35 3.15 3.16 End Stocks 1.78 1.54 1.61 1.51 Note - Imports and exports do not balance due to differing marketing years and time lags between reported exports and imports. Cotton (Mln Bales) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 45.87 48.14 42.70 43.11 Production 69.53 69.66 78.94 78.92 Imports 23.07 23.07 21.49 21.45 Mill Use 80.72 77.08 76.84 74.79 Exports 23.37 23.50 20.25 20.28 End Stocks 34.16 39.99 45.87 48.14 Note - Imports and exports may not balance due to cotton in transit and reporting discrepancies in some countries. Rice (Milled Basis) 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 24.71 24.75 22.16 22.16 Production 317.90 318.90 320.12 320.05 Imports 10.56 10.63 11.68 11.70 Dom. Use 321.41 321.87 317.58 317.46 Exports 12.11 12.22 12.49 12.39 End Stocks 21.19 21.78 24.71 24.75 Reuter 
USDA REPORTS EXPORT SALES ACTIVITY

The U.S. Agriculture Department said private U.S. exporters reported sales of 200,000 tonnes of wheat to Jordan, 300,000 tonnes of soybean meal to Iraq and 100,000 tonnes of corn to Algeria. The wheat for Jordan includes 165,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 35,000 tonnes of soft red winter and is for delivery during the 1987/88 marketing year. The soybean meal sales to Iraq includes 180,000 tonnes for delivery during the 1986/87 season and 120,000 tonnes during the 1987/88 season, the department said. The 100,000 tonnes of corn sales to Algeria are for delivery during the 1986/87 season, it said. The marketing year for wheat begins June 1, corn September 1, and soybean meal October 1. Reuter 
EXPORT BONUS WHEAT FOR JORDAN --USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) accepted eight bonus offers from two exporters on sales of 190,000 tonnes of hard red winter and 35,000 tonnes of soft red winter wheat to Jordan, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonuses awarded averaged 38.08 dlrs per tonne and the wheat is for delivery May-November, 1987. The bonus awards were made to Louis Dreyfus Corp (200,000 tonnes), and Continental Grain Co (25,000 tonnes) and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. The purchases of U.S. wheat completes the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced on December 31, 1986. Reuter 
SOYBEAN MEAL SUPPLY/DEMAND BY COUNTRY -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department detailed world supply/demand data for major importers and exporters of soybean meal, by country, as follows in mln tonnes -- ARGENTINA SOYBEAN MEAL -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.13 0.13 0.19 0.19 Production 3.67 3.67 3.49 3.49 Imports NIL NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 0.35 0.35 0.35 0.35 Exports 3.30 3.30 3.20 3.20 End Stocks 0.15 0.15 0.13 0.13 BRAZIL SOYBEAN MEAL, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.61 0.60 0.72 0.72 Production 10.40 10.39 9.69 9.66 Imports NIL NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 2.55 2.55 2.41 2.40 Exports 7.85 7.85 7.38 7.38 End Stocks 0.61 0.59 0.61 0.60 EC-12 SOYBEAN MEAL, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.40 0.40 0.44 0.44 Production 10.44 10.45 10.18 10.17 Imports 13.03 13.03 13.48 13.48 Domes Use 18.50 18.49 18.59 18.57 Exports 5.07 5.09 5.10 5.11 End Stocks 0.30 0.30 0.40 0.40 Reuter 
SOYBEAN OIL SUPPLY/DEMAND BY COUNTRY -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department detailed world supply/demand data for major importers and exporters of soybean oil, by country, in mln tonnes -- ARGENTINA -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.10 Production 0.77 0.77 0.73 0.73 Imports NIL NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 0.10 0.10 0.11 0.11 Exports 0.66 0.66 0.63 0.63 End Stocks 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.10 BRAZIL SOYBEAN OIL, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.32 0.28 0.24 0.24 Production 2.52 2.51 2.35 2.35 Imports 0.15 0.15 0.12 0.12 Domes Use 2.00 2.00 1.94 1.98 Exports 0.65 0.65 0.45 0.45 End Stocks 0.34 0.28 0.32 0.28 EC-12 SOYBEAN OIL, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.22 0.22 0.23 0.22 Production 2.32 2.33 2.26 2.26 Imports 0.44 0.44 0.50 0.50 Domes Use 1.46 1.45 1.38 1.38 Exports 1.29 1.30 1.39 1.39 End Stocks 0.23 0.23 0.22 0.22 INDIA SOYBEAN OIL -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 0.12 0.07 0.21 0.21 Production 0.17 0.17 0.15 0.15 Imports 0.35 0.35 0.25 0.25 Domes Use 0.52 0.52 0.49 0.54 Exports NIL NIL NIL NIL End Stocks 0.12 0.07 0.12 0.07 Reuter 
ROYAL DUTCH (RD) UNIT TO RAISE HEAVY FUEL PRICES

Scallop Petroleum Corp, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell group, said it will raise contract prices for heavy fuel 50 cts to one dlr a barrel, effective tomorrow. The increase brings the price for 0.5 pct sulphur fuel to 21.50 dlrs, up 50 cts, 0.7 pct sulphur to 21 dlrs, up 75 cts, 0.7 pct sulphur to 21 dlrs, up 75 cts, one pct sulphur to 20.25 dlrs, up 75 cts, two pct sulphur to 19.75 dlrs, up one dlr, 2.2 pct sulphur to 19.50 dlrs, up one dlr, 2.8 pct sulphur 19 dlrs, up one dlr, the company said. Price for 0.3 pct sulphur was unchanged at 22.25 dlrs, it said. Reuter 
EXPORT BONUS WHEAT FLOUR TO IRAQ --USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover a sale of 12,500 tonnes of U.S. wheat flour to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the bonus awarded was 105.82 dlrs per tonne and the wheat flour is for shipment July 1-10, 1987. The bonus was awarded to The Pillsbury Company and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. An additional 150,000 tonnes of wheat flour is still available to Iraq under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced January 7, 1987, the department said. Reuter 
RICE SUPPLY/DEMAND FOR THAILAND -- USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department detailed rice supply/demand milled-basis data for Thailand, the world's major rice exporter, as follows in mln tonnes -- 1986/87 1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87 04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 1.32 1.33 1.46 1.46 Production 11.88 12.14 13.00 13.00 Imports NIL NIL NIL NIL Domes Use 8.73 8.73 8.80 8.80 Exports 3.70 3.70 4.34 4.34 End Stocks 0.77 1.04 1.32 1.33 Reuter 
USDA FLORIDA ORANGE REPORT CONSIDERED BEARISH

The U.S. Agriculture Department's latest estimates on 1986/87 Florida orange production and orange juice yield are bearish for the frozen concentrated orange juice futures market because the yield increase was greater than expected, FCOJ traders and analysts said. The USDA projected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of FCOJ per box versus last month's estimate of 1.47 gallons. The government estimated Florida orange production (excluding Temples) at 122.9 mln boxes versus 124 mln last month. Temples were unchanged at 3.4 mln boxes. Traders and analysts said the unexpectedly large yield increase outweighed the anticipated drop in box count. reuter 
CANADA SOUTHERN PETROLEUM <CSW> TO SELL STOCK

Canada Southern Petroleum Ltd said its board authorized the sale of additional limited voting stock exclusively to the company's shareholders. A registration statement in connection with the proposed offering was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, it said. Details on the offering have not been determined, it added. Canada Southern said it has approximately nine mln shares of limited voting stock outstanding, with 15 mln shares authorized. Reuter 
U.S. OIL DEPENDENCY SEEN RISING TO RECORD LEVEL

The United States' dependency on foreign oil sources may reach record levels by the mid-1990s, according to John H. Lichtblau, president of Petroleum Industry Research Associates. Lichtblau, speaking at an alternative energy conference here, said the U.S. may depend on foreign suppliers for as much as 52 pct of its oil by 1995, surpasssing the previous high level of 47 pct in 1977. "The long term growth in dependency on foreign oil is inevitable," Lichtblau said. As much as 30 pct of U.S. oil imports in 1995 could come from OPEC nations, he said. Lichtblau said the U.S. depended on foreign suppliers for 33 pct of its oil in 1986 and predicted that would increase to 40 pct by 1990. "However, the rate of this growth can be affected positively or negatively through government action or inaction," Lichtblau said. He said that one of the government's negative actions is the maintenance of the windfall profits tax which acts as a disincentive to developing existing fields and reduces cash flow for oil exploration. Lichtblau called for the adoption of an international floor price for crude oil to help stabilize world oil prices. "An international floor price adopted by all or most industrial countries would clearly be a much more effective measure and would be much less distortive for the U.S. than if we imposed it alone," Lichtblau said. Development of alternate energy sources such as synthetic fuels as well as increased development in Alaska could lessen U.S. dependency on foreign oil, Lichtblau said. A potential for alternative supplies could limit the willingness of OPEC nations to raise oil prices, he said. Lichtblau also called for the federal government to offer tax abatements for oil drilling, to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate and to develop pilot plans for alternative energy. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPS LOADING AT PORTLAND

There were six grain ships loading and eight ships were waiting to load at Portland, according to the Portland Merchants Exchange. Reuter 
CCC GUARANTEES TO IRAQ SWITCHED --USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has transferred 12.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. hatching eggs and 7.0 mln dlrs in guarantees for breeder livestock to increase coverage on sales of U.S. protein concentrates to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The action was taken at the request of Iraq's State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs and reduces the line for hatching eggs to zero and the line for breeder livestock from 15.0 mln dlrs to 8.0 mln dlrs, the department said. The guarantee line for sales of protein concentrates has been increased from 25.0 mln dlrs to 44.0 mln dlrs, it said. Reuter 
NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 1.31 BILLION DLRS

Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 1.31 billion dlrs to 62.70 billion in the week ended April 1, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. Including acceptances, loans dropped 1.34 billion dlrs to 63.23 billion. Commercial paper outstanding nationally fell 4.80 billion dlrs to 334.28 billion. National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday. Reuter 
N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 169 MLN DLRS

The eight major New York City banks had daily average borrowings of 169 mln dlrs from the Federal Reserve in the week ended April 8, a Fed spokesman said. A Fed spokesman said that all of the borrowings were made yesterday by fewer than half the banks. It was the second half of the two-week bank statement period that ended on Wednesday. Average borrowings by these banks were 142 mln dlrs in the first week of the period. Reuter 
NATIONAL AVERAGE PRICES FOR FARMER-OWNED RESERVE

The U.S. Agriculture Department reported the farmer-owned reserve national five-day average price through April 8 as follows (Dlrs/Bu-Sorghum Cwt) - Natl Loan Release Call Avge Rate-X Level Price Price Wheat 2.62 2.40 IV 4.65 -- V 4.65 -- VI 4.45 -- Corn 1.38 1.92 IV 3.15 3.15 V 3.25 -- X - 1986 Rates. Natl Loan Release Call Avge Rate-X Level Price Price Oats 1.58 0.99 V 1.65 -- Barley 1.55 1.56 IV 2.55 2.55 V 2.65 -- Sorghum 2.54 3.25-Y IV 5.36 5.36 V 5.54 -- Reserves I, II and III have matured. Level IV reflects grain entered after Oct 6, 1981 for feedgrain and after July 23, 1981 for wheat. Level V wheat/barley after 5/14/82, corn/sorghum after 7/1/82. Level VI covers wheat entered after January 19, 1984. X-1986 rates. Y-dlrs per CWT (100 lbs). Reuter 
U.S. WEEKLY SOYBEAN CRUSH 19,416,000 BUSHELS

Reporting members of the National Soybean Processors Association (NSPA) crushed 19,416,000 bushels of soybeans in the week ended April 8 compared with 20,115,000 bushels in the previous week and 17,160,000 in the year-ago week, the association said. It said total crushing capacity for members was 25,873,904 bushels vs 25,873,904 last week and 25,459,238 bushels last year. NSPA also said U.S. soybean meal exports in the week were 70,351 tonnes vs 135,452 tonnes a week ago and compared with 76,065 tonnes in the year-ago week. NSPA said the figures include only NSPA member firms. NSPA gave the following breakdown of the soybean crush for the week, with comparisons, in 1,000 bu: 4/08/87 4/01/87 YEAR-AGO Illinois 2,576 3,479 X Ind, Ky, Ohio 3,586 3,376 6,053-Y South East 3,871 3,791 3,058 South Central 1,631 1,934 1,563 South West 2,426 2,334 2,183 Iowa 3,450 3,550 2,815 Minn, N.D., S.D. 1,875 1,651 1,488 Total U.S. 19,416 20,115 17,160 X-Ill not reported exclusive of Ind, Ky and Ohio in year-ago period. Y-Includes Ill. Reuter 
ARGENTINA WARNS IT MAY CUT OFF TALKS WITH BANKS

Argentina's Economy Minister Juan Sourrouille said the "narrow interest" of creditor banks was holding up an accord to stretch out debt repayments and warned Argentina may break off negotiations. "It is inadmissible that the private narrow interest of some banks threatens to turn into an insurmountable obstacle for a policy we have agreed with the international community," Sourrouille said. Speaking to the International Monetary Fund's Interim Committee meeting, Sourrouille said Argentina had given ample proof that it is negotiating seriously with the banks. "Today, with that same responsibility, we are clearly stating that it will be imposible for us to continue negotiating on that basis." A monetary source who heard Sourrouille's speech from a vantage point close to U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, said Baker turned to one of his advisors to ask for the names of banks that Sourrouille said were stalling on an agreement. "Let's give them a call right away," the source quoted Baker as saying. Sourrouille reminded the Interim Committee that the IMF last February approved a 1.3-billion-dlr stand-by loan and a longer-term credit, known as an extended Fund Facility for another 500,000 dlrs. But he said that despite Argentina's "disciplined effort" to achieve inflation-free economic growth, it was unable to obtain IMF payouts due to the link between that arrangement and settlement of a separate agreement with creditor banks. Sourrouille stated flatly that the banks were flouting a long-established practice under which debtor countries which reached agreements on economic reforms with the Fund were a good credit risk for the banks. "In other words, facts are demonstrating that the current debt strategy is showing that an IMF agreement is only a weak signal for the beginning of another discussion (with the banks)," he stated. He added the fact that the strategy is not working was also demonstrated when governments that approved Argentina's program had to join in a bridge loan for his country. Sourrouille stated that Argentina has met IMF requirements regarding its balance of payments and its monetary and fiscal policies. Despite this Sourrouille said, "What we are facing is the inexplicable demands (from the banks) that are blocking negotations." Argentina, with a foreign debt of 50 billion dlrs, has been seeking to reschdule 24 billion dlrs in "old debt" and another 4.2 billion dlrs that had been refinanced in 1985. The minister also said there were two issues separating Argentina from an accord with creditor banks, one was a minimum difference on the interest rate margin above international levels. The other condition, of more concern, were suggestions by the banks that would upset the country's financial system. Monetary sources said creditor banks have been offering Argentina the London Interbank rate (Libor) plus 7/8 pct, which they gave Venezuela in a recent refinancing agreement. The sources said Argentina is committed to winning the lower spread Mexico gained last year of 13/16 pct above Libor. Reuter 
FCOJ MOVEMENT 4,496,533 GALLONS LAST WEEK

Florida Citrus Processors Association said frozen concentrated orange juice movement into trade channels in the week ended April 4 totalled 4,496,533 gallons versus 5,058,976 gallons in the week ended March 28 and 4,141,578 gallons in the corresponding year-ago period. There were 499,967 gallons of foreign imports last week versus 341,280 gallons the week before. Domestic imports last week were 24,774. Retail movement was 1,741,139 versus 1,464,490 a year ago. Bulk movement was 2,328,368 against 2,139,383 a year earlier. Current season cumulative movement was 79,516,753 gallons versus 76,919,119 last year. Cumulative net pack for the season was 86,254,846 versus 82,355,864 a year ago. Inventory was 75,212,711 versus 75,985,696 a year ago. Reuter 
LA LAND <LLX>,DU PONT <DD>GET EXPLORATION TRACTS

Louisiana Land and Exploration Co said it, Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc subsidiary and <Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V.> have been offered four exploration blocks offshore The Netherlands. Louisiana Land said Blocks Q4a, E12c and E15b were offered to the group in which Conoco has a 67.5 pct interest, Louisiana Land 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5 pct, while this group along with a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co <PZL> were offered Block Q5c. The offers were the result of applications submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the Netherlands Sixth Offshore Licensing Round. Louisiana Land said the Conoco group intends to provide a formal acceptance of the blocks with plans to start exploration this year. The company also said the two Q blocks immediately offset other offshore blocks on which hydrocarbons have been found in commercial quantities. Reuter 
WORLD MARKET PRICE FOR UPLAND COTTON - USDA

The U.S. Agriculture Department announced the prevailing world market price, adjusted to U.S. quality and location, for Strict Low Middling, 1-1/16 inch upland cotton at 50.57 cts per lb, to be in effect through midnight April 16. The adjusted world price is at average U.S. producing locations (near Lubbock, Texas) and will be further adjusted for other qualities and locations. The price will be used in determining First Handler Cotton Certificate payment rates. The department said since the adjusted world price is above the loan repayment rate of 44 cts per lb for the base quality, no First Handler Cotton Certificates will be issued during the period. Based on data for the week ended April 9, the adjusted world price for upland cotton is determined as follows, in cts per lb -- Northern European Price -- 62.88 Adjustments -- Average U.S. Spot Mkt Location -- 9.98 SLM 1-1/16 Inch Cotton -- 1.80 Average U.S. Location -- 0.53 Sum of Adjustments -- 12.32 Adjusted World Price -- 50.63 Reuter 
USDA COMMENTS ON EXPORT SALES REPORT 

U.S. corn sales of just over 1.0 mln tonnes in the week ended April 2 were eight pct above the prior week, but 25 pct below the four-week average, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In comments on its latest Export Sales Report, the department said Iraq, Japan and the USSR were the largest buyers. Sales for the next marketing year, which begins September 1, totaled 503,200 tonnes and were mainly to Iraq and Taiwan. Wheat sales of 119,300 tonnes for the current season and net reductions of 13,700 tonnes for the 1987/88 season were four-fifths below the combined total for the prior week and the four-week average, it said. Sri Lanka was the most active wheat destination with purchases of 52,500 tonnes for the current year, it said. Other significant purchasers for the current year were Mexico and Honduras, it said. Soybean sales of 240,500 tonnes were one-fifth below the prior week and nearly one-third below the four-week average. Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Italy and Israel were the major purchasers, the department said. Net sales of 117,700 tonnes of soybean cake and meal fell 31 pct from the previous week and 38 pct below the four-week average. Major increases for West Germany, Venezuela, the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia were partially offset by reductions for unknown destinations, USDA said. Activity in soybean oil resulted in decreases of 2,400 tonnes, with sales to unknown destinations down by 2,700 tonnes, while sales to Canada increased 200 tonnes, the Department said. Combined sales of 71,300 running bales of cotton -- 60,200 bales for the current season and 11,100 bales for 1987/88 season -- were four-fifths higher than the prior week's level but nine pct below the four-week average. Mexico was the dominant buyer for the current year followed by Zaire, Italy, and Spain, the department said. The primary buyers for the 1987/88 season were South Korea, Spain, Japan and Taiwan, the department said. Sorghum sales of 143,300 tonnes were 25 pct less than the prior week, with Japan and Venezuela the main buyers. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS TWO BILLION DLRS IN MARCH 30 WEEK, FED SAYS



FED SAYS U.S. DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS 361 MLN DLRS IN APRIL 8 WEEK



U.S. BANK NET FREE RESERVES 447 MLN DLRS IN TWO WEEKS TO APRIL 8



U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 361 MLN DLRS

U.S. bank discount window borrowings less extended credits averaged 361 mln dlrs a day in the week to Wednesday, April 8, the Federal Reserve said. Total daily borrowings in the week fell 99 mln dlrs to 591 mln dlrs, with extended credits down 35 mln dlrs at 230 mln dlrs. The week was the second half of the two-week statement period that ended Wednesday. Net borrowings averaged 425 mln dlrs in the first week of the period. Commenting on the two-week statement period that ended on April 8, the Fed said banks had average net free reserves of 447 mln dlrs. A Fed spokesman told a press conference that there were no large one-day net misses in the Fed's estimates of reserves in the week ended Wednesday. Of the week's borrowings, money center banks accounted for 65 pct, and small banks for almost 35 pct. On Wednesday, when net borrowings were 1.36 billion dlrs and Fed funds averaged a high 6.45 pct, money center banks accounted for more than 90 pct of the borrowing. Borrowings in the latest two weeks averaged 393 mln dlrs a day, the highest since the statement period ended January 28. Float ranged from about 250 mln dlrs on Thursday to between one and 1.25 billion dlrs on Monday and Tuesday. The spokesman said Monday's float included 500 mln dlrs in holdover float at one Fed branch due to mechanical problems. About 500 mln dlrs of Tuesday's float reflected non-weather-related transportation float in one Eastern Reserve bank. As-of adjustments ranged from minus 500 mln dlrs on Monday, when cash letter errors at two eastern reserve banks were corrected, to plus 500 mln dlrs on Thursday, when a correction was made to unposted funds at a single bank. In the first half of the statement period ended Wednesday, banks held excess reserves on the first four days of the week but ran a deficit on Wednesday. In the second week, they ran a deficit on Thursday, Friday and Monday but held excess reserves on the final two days. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS TWO BILLION DLRS

U.S. M-1 money supply fell two billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.9 billion dlrs in the March 30 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 740.9 billion dlrs from 741.0 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 739.8 billion dlrs from 739.7 billion. Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 would be anywhere from down two billion dlrs to up 1.8 billion. Reuter 
ASSETS OF U.S. MONEY FUNDS ROSE IN WEEK

Assets of money market mutual funds increased 1.39 billion dlrs in the week ended yesterday to 236.77 billion dlrs, the Investment Company Institute said. Assets of 93 institutional funds were up 481.1 mln dlrs to 65.65 billion dlrs, 93 broker-dealer funds rose 285.3 mln dlrs to 107.31 billion dlrs, and 197 general purpose funds gained 625.5 mln dlrs to 63.8 billion dlrs. Reuter 
GRAIN SHIPMENTS TO THE USSR -- USDA

There were 287,700 tonnes of U.S. corn shipped to the Soviet Union in the week ended April 2, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department's latest Export Sales report. That compares with 106,200 tonnes shipped in the prior week. There were no wheat or soybean shipments during the week. The USSR has purchased 2,825,600 tonnes of U.S. corn, as of April 2, for delivery in the fourth year of the U.S.-USSR grain agreement. Total shipments in the third year of the U.S.-USSR grains agreement, which ended September 30, amounted to 152,600 tonnes of wheat, 6,808,100 tonnes of corn and 1,518,700 tonnes of soybeans. Reuter 
JIFFY LUBE INTERNATIONAL <JLUB> IN AUSTRALIA

Jiffy Lube International Inc said it plans to expand into the Australian market, as well as neighboring countries, with its chain of automotive fast oil change and maintenance centers. Jiffy Lube said it plans to open its first center in Brisbane later this year, and have 100 centers open within six years. Reuter 
CRUDE OIL NETBACKS UP SHARPLY IN EUROPE, U.S.

Crude oil netback values in complex refineries rose sharply in Europe and firmed in the U.S. last Friday from the previous week but fell sharply in Singapore, according to calculations by Reuters Pipeline. The firmer tone to refining margins in Europe and the U.S. relected higher prices for petroleum products, particularly gasoline, and support from crude oil prices. Netback values for crude oil refined in Northern Europe rose substantially following strong gains in gasoline prices there. Brent is valued at 19.45 dlrs, up 56 cts a barrel or three pct from the previous week. In the U.S. Gulf, sweet crudes rose in value by 14 cts to 19.33 dlrs for West Texas Intermediate, up about 0.7 pct. Sour grades in the U.S. Gulf showed an increase of 33 cts a barrel for Alaska North Slope, up 1.7 pct. But netbacks for crude oil refined in Singapore fell sharply, down 15 cts to as much as 68 cts a barrel as ample distillate supplies weighed on petroleum product prices. Attaka in Singapore is valued at 18.55 dlrs, a decline of 68 cts a barrel or 3.5 pct from the previous week. For refineries in the Mediterranean, netback values were mostly lower, with declines of seven to 14 cts. The value of Kuwait crude fell 14 cts to 18.37 dlrs, while Iranian Light fell 11 cts to 19.14 dlrs. On the U.S. West Coast, netback values for ANS CIF L.A. also jumped sharply, up 40 cts a barrel or 2.2 pct to 18.82 dlrs on higher gasoline prices. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SAYS SYSTEM NEEDS STABILITY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the floating exchange rate system has not been as effective as had been hoped in promoting stability and preventing imbalances from emerging in the global economy. In remarks before the afternoon session of the International Monetary Fund's Interim Committee, Baker said he was not suggesting that the system should be abandoned. "But I do suggest," he said, "that we need something to give it more stability and to keep it headed in the right direction when the wind shifts." He said that indicators can serve "as a kind of compass" but added that structural indicators can help focus attention on some policies. Baker, however, said the IMF "needs to move beyond macroeconomic indicators and find structural indicators that can help focus attention on some of the policies of specific relevance to the imbalances we face today." The Treasury Secretary said that indicators should be given a more prominent role in the annual economic reviews -- Article IV consultations -- that the Fund performs. Baker also told the policy making group that it was time for the IMF to adopt earlier recommendations making IMF surveillance more relevant to national policymakers and the public. "In particular, we urge increased publicity for IMF appraisals developed in Article IV consultations, the use of follow-up reports on country actions to implement IMF recommendations, and greater use of special consultation procedures," he said. Baker emphasized that indicators were a device "for moving beyond rhetoric to action." He said they provide "more structure to the system, and induce more discipline and peer pressure into the process of policy coordination." He said the Fund's procedures for surveillance need to be reviewed and updated to reflect the use of indicators. "This should be matter of priority for the executive board," he said. Baker also urged the Fund to develop alternative medium-term economic scenarios for countries that "can help us focus even more clearly on the most important imbalances, by identifying options for addressing them and analyzing the implications of these options." He said also that further work should be done on finding paths that lead toward possible medium-term objectives. "If we are to take effective remedial action when there are significant deviations from an intended course, then we must have more definitive ways of indentifying the right course for key variables," he said. Reuter 
U.S. DOLLAR LOSSES PROPEL BROAD COMMODITY GAINS

Commodities from gold to grains to cotton posted solid gains in a flurry of buying today as losses in the U.S. dollar and rising interest rates kindled fears of inflation and economic instability. Gains were most pronounced on the Commodity Exchange in New York, where gold jumped 12.40 dlrs and closed at 436.50 dlrs a troy ounce, and silver 22.5 cents to 6.86 dlrs a troy ounce. A key factor behind the advance was anticipation that inflation will be the only way for the major industrial nations to halt the slide in the value of the U.S. dollar, said Steve Chronowitz, director of commodity research with Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co., in New York. The dollar tumbled one day after top finance officials from the seven largest industrial nations reaffirmed their commitment to support its value, and despite reports of intervention by the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank, traders said. Traders said it appears that the industrial nations, known as the Group of Seven, lack the ability to change the long-term direction of the currency markets. "Maybe they have some ideas or plans," said Chronowitz. "If they do, it's not evident." "It looks like there's no cure but to let the free market take values to where they should be. "One way or another, we will force our major trading partners to stimulate their economies," as a measure to correct the mounting U.S. trade deficit, Chronowitz said. "I think the markets believe, and have believed for a long time, that the only recourse is to reflate at some point. It's going to be a long and tedious process, but that's what's happening," he said. The falling value of the dollar makes U.S. commodities cheaper for foreign buyers, stimulating demand. At the same time, traders who are holding stocks and bonds saw the value of their investments falling and many are turning to commodities such as precious metals as a hedge, said Marty McNeill, a metals analyst in New York with the trading house of Dominick and Dominick. The reaction in the metal markets reverberated throughout the commodities markets, as grains, livestock, and cotton posted broad gains. Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade said attention in the grain markets has shifted from concern about burdensome supplies to the outlook that a lower dollar will stimulate export demand. After the close of trading, the Agriculture Department raised its estimate for grain imports by the Soviet Union by two mln tonnes from the month-earlier report. Live hogs and frozen pork bellies posted sharp gains on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, while live cattle were moderately higher. Analysts said several factors boosted hog prices. They said hogs haven't been making the weight gains that are normal at this time of year, and farmers have been too busy with field work to market animals. Reuter 
EGYPT SEEKING 500,000 TONNES CORN - U.S. TRADERS

Egypt is expected to tender April 22 for 500,000 tonnes of corn for May through September shipments, private export sources said. Reuter 



CBOE TO LIST NEW S AND P OPTIONS <NSX> APRIL 20

The Chicago Board Options Exchange, CBOE, said it will list new Standard and Poor 500 stock index options beginning April 20 that will trade side-by-side with the existing S and P 500 options <SPX>. The new S and P 500 option contract differs from the existing contract in that settlement of the new contract will be based on the opening value of the index on expiration Friday. Settlement of the existing contract is based on the closing value of the index on expiration Friday. The new opening settlement S and P 500 options will be offered only in months in which there are S and P 500 futures. Initial months to be listed in the new options will be June, September and December, the CBOE said. Dissemination of the settlement of price of the new options will be made through a special ticker symbol -- <SET>, the exchange said. There will initially be seven series of strike prices for each contract month of the new options -- one strike price "at the money," or near to the actual spot index value, and three above and three below the spot index. Position limits in any combination of both the new and existing S and P 500 options will be 15,000 contracts. The exchange said in the rare event that a stock does not open on expiration Friday, the previous day's closing price of that stock will be used to calculate the settlement value of the index. Reuter 
EC WARNS AGAINST PASSAGE OF TEXTILE BILL

The European Community has told Congress that if textile legislation injuring EC interests is approved, there was no doubt the community would retaliate against U.S. exports. Roy Denmam, head of the EC delegation here, issued the warning in a letter to Senator Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Finance Committee. A copy of the letter was provided Reuters. Denmam told Bentsen, a Texas Democrat, that if the textile legislation passed on its own or was included in an omnibus trade bill and injured EC interests, "there should be no doubt that the EC will retaliate against the United States." He added that "at a time when U.S. textile exports to the EC are growing rapidly, one result of such retaliation would be a substantial reduction of U.S. exports and jobs." The textile legislation, backed strongly by the industry, hard hit by imports, and by senators from textile-producing states would impose new tough global quotas on textile imports and for the first time include Europe in the quotas. Reagan Administration officials have also opposed the textile legislation, saying that if it passed it would likely prompt a presidential veto. Denman made his comments on the textile issue in a general assessment of the Senate trade bill, titled S.490. He said he was concerned about provisions in the Senate bill that would limit, if not eliminate, the president's discretion if retaliating against nations for keeping their home markets closed to foreign goods. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter has also opposed those provisions, arguing that presidential flexibility was needed in order to be able to negotiate with countries to open their markets, with retaliation being retained as a final, but discretionary, weapon. The pending overall trade legislation would force the Administration to consult often with Congress and seek its approval during step-by-step GATT negotiations. He said "enactment of S. 490 would reduce the confidence of other governments in America's commitment to multinational trade." Summing up the senate legislation, Denman said "a number of provisions of that bil may achieve the opposite of what is intended and lead to dangerous consequences for the world and the U.S. economy." Reuter 
CBOE TO LIST NEW S AND P OPTIONS APRIL 20

The Chicago Board Options Exchange, CBOE, said it will list new Standard and Poor 500 stock index options beginning April 20 that will trade side-by-side with the existing S and P 500 options. The new S and P 500 option contract differs from the existing contract in that settlement of the new contract will be based on the opening value of the index on expiration Friday. Settlement of the existing contract is based on the closing value of the index on expiration Friday. The new opening settlement S and P 500 options will be offered only in months in which there are S and P 500 futures. Initial months to be listed in the new options will be June, September and December, the CBOE said. Dissemination of the settlement price of the new options will be made through a special ticker symbol -- <SET>, the exchange said. There will initially be seven series of strike prices for each contract month of the new options -- one strike price "at the money," or near to the actual spot index value, and three above and three below the spot index. Position limits in any combination of both the new and existing S and P 500 options will be 15,000 contracts. The exchange said in the rare event that a stock does not open on expiration Friday, the previous day's closing price of that stock will be used to calculate the settlement value of the index. Reuter 
FRENCH PROPOSE NEW WORLD BANK DEBT FACILITY

The French government said it proposed the creation of a new facility for development and for debt reduction under the framework of the World Bank. In a statement issued in conjunction with the meeting of the International Monetary Fund's policy-making Interim Committee, the French said the "multilateral resources thus collected would permit a partial refinancing on highly concessional terms of previously rescheduled official debts." The statement said the "French government believes it is necessary to take new steps to deal with the issue of the poorest countries' debt." The French statement said that Paris club reschedulings should have a lengthening of the repayment period up to between 15 and 20 years instead of the current limit of 10 years. And grace periods would be extended. "These measures would be confined to the poorest, heavily indebted countries and would be decided on a case-by-case basis," it said. The French also called for making the IMF's compensatory financing facility for export shortfalls more concessional. Reuter 
EC WARNS AGAINST PASSAGE OF TEXTILE BILL

The European Community (EC) will retaliate against U.S. textile exports if Congress passes trade legislation damaging European interests, an EC official warned today. Roy Denman, head of the EC delegation here, issued the warning in a letter to Senator Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Finance Committee. A copy was provided to Reuters. The bill, backed by the textile industry and senators from textile-producing states, would impose global quotas on textile imports and for the first time include Europe. Denman said he was concerned about provisions in the bill that would limit, if not eliminate, the president's discretion in retaliating against nations that keep their home markets closed to foreign goods. Reuter 



REAGAN HITS HOUSE-PASSED BUDGET

President Reagan criticized the House-passed budget by saying the Democratic budget plan was just business as usual. The budget cut defense by eight billion dlrs and called for 18 billion dlrs in new taxes. He said the defense cut potentially theratened national security and was asking the American taxpayers to pay for the Democrats' excesses. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER CALLS FOR MORE BANK FLEXIBILITY

Treasury Secretary James Baker said that commercial banks need to develop more flexibility in their concerted lending mechanisms "to help assure continued participation in new money packages." He said that major debtor nations need to be able to count on receiving timely disbursements on new loans essential to support well-conceived economic programs. His remarks were made to the afternoon session of the International Monetary Fund's policy making Interim Committee. Baker said, "The sense of urgency and willingness to cooperate in support of a larger general interest that helped to carry us through the difficult crisis period of 1982 and 1983 is now less evident." He said to address this problem, it is important for the commercial banks to "develop a menu of alternative new money options from which all banks with debt exposure can choose in providing continuing support for debtor reforms." He said the "continued implementation of the debt strategy may well rest on their doing so." Baker also said that growth prospects for the lowest income countries remain an issue of "critical concern to the United States." He said that he intended to address the problem of poor country prospects in greater detail at tomorrow's meeting of the joint IMF-World Bank Devlopment Committee. Baker said, however, that ministers should guard against what appear to be magical solutions to the complex debt problem. "I want to stress the need for all to guard against the ephemeral attraction of magical solutions, which may appear as tantalizing alternatives to the rigorous realities of grappling with our debt problems," he said. But he emphasized that the only lasting progress is to approach each situation on a case-by-case basis, "bringing to bear the policies and financing needed to bring the economy back to sustained economic growth." Reuter 
ANALYSTS DOUBT FED FIRMED DESPITE BORROWING RISE

Economists said that they doubt the Federal Reserve is firming policy to aid the dollar, despite higher discount window borrowings in the latest two-week statement period and very heavy borrowings Wednesday. Data out today show net borrowings from the Fed averaged 393 mln dlrs in the two weeks to Wednesday, up from 265 mln dlrs in the prior statement period. Wednesday borrowings were 1.4 billion dlrs as Federal funds averaged a high 6.45 pct. "One could make a case that the Fed is firming, but it probably isn't," said William Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds. Sullivan said some may assume the Fed has firmed policy modestly to support the dollar because net borrowings in the two-weeks to Wednesday were nearly 400 mln dlrs after averaging around 250 mln dlrs over the previous two months. However, the Dean Witter economist noted that the latest two-week period included a quarter end when seasonal demand often pushes up borrrowings. "Some might argue that the Fed was firming policy, but it looks like it tried to play catchup with reserve provisions late in the statement period and didn't quite make it," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. A Fed spokesman told a press press conference today that the Fed had no large net one-day miss of two billion dlrs or more in its reserve projections in the week ended Wednesday. Still, McCarthy said it may have had a cumulative miss in its estimates over the week that caused it to add fewer reserves earlier in the week than were actually needed. The Fed took no market reserve management action last Thursday and Friday, the first two days of the week. It added temporary reserves indirectly on Monday via two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements and then supplied reserves directly via System repurchases on Tuesday and Wednesday. Based on Fed data out today, economists calculated that the two-day System repurchase agreements the Fed arrranged on Tuesday totaled around 5.9 billion dlrs. They put Wednesday's overnight System repos at approximately 3.4 billion dlrs. "It is quite clear that the Fed is not firming policy at this time," said Larry Leuzzi of S.G. Warburg and Co Inc. Citing the view shared by the other two economists, Leuzzi said the Fed cannot really afford to seriously lift interest rates to help the dollar because that would harm already weak economies in the United States and abroad and add to the financial stress of developing countries and their lenders. "Those who believe the Fed tightened policy in the latest statement period have to explain why it acted before the dollar tumbled," said McCarthy of Merrill Lynch. He said the dollar staged a precipitous drop as a new statement period began today on disappointment yesterday's Washington meetings of international monetary officials failed to produce anything that would offer substantive dollar aid. In fact, currency dealers said there was nothing in Wednesday's G-7 communique to alter the prevailing view that the yen needs to rise further to redress the huge trade imbalance between the United States and Japan. The economists generally agreed that the Fed is aiming for steady policy now that should correspond to a weekly average Fed funds rate between six and 6-1/8 pct. This is about where the rate has been since early November. "I'm not so sure that the Fed is engineering a tighter policy to help the dollar, as some suspect," said Sullivan of Dean Witter. If it is, however, he said that Fed probably has just nudged up its funds rate goal to around 6.25 to 6.35 pct from six to 6.10 pct previously. Reuter 
PAKISTAN GETS 70 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

mln-dlr, 20-year loan to assist Pakistan in a project designed to improve power plant efficiency. Noting that a shortage of power constrains Pakistan's economic development, the Bank said one objective of the project is to provide at least 200 megawatts of additional generating capacity. Another objective is to improve the efficiency with which hydrocarbons are used by Pakistan's Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) in power production, it said. One effect of this would be reduced atmospheric pollution. Reuter 
MAURITIUS GETS 25 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

The World Bank said it approved a 25 mln dlr structural adjustment loan for Mauritius to aid that country's industrial sector. The Bank said the 17-year loan will support policy reforms designed to help increase the efficiency of the country's manufacturing sector, develop export enterprises and encourage efficient use of resources. It added, "The increased availability of foreign exchange for imports is expected to help the expansion of industrial output and exports." Reuter 
IDA GRANTS SRI LANKA 18.6 MLN DLR CREDIT

The International Development Association said it approved a 18.6 mln dlr credit to Sri Lanka to help that country strengthen its agricultural research and development. IDA, the World Bank arm that makes interest free loans to the poorest nations, said the credit will support changes designed to raise farm income by boosting production, developing better crop varieties and improving farm systems. It said these goals will be accomplished through the establishment of a Council of Agricultural Research which will formulate and institute an agricultural research strategy. Reuter 
U.S. MARKETS OFFER GLIMPSE OF VOLCKER NIGHTMARE

Today's turmoil in the U.S. Financial markets, with bond and stock prices tumbling in the dollar's wake, is evidence of a major shift in investor psychology that is likely to spell more turbulence ahead, economists said. For two years, the markets had hailed the dollar's decline as the cure-all for the U.S. Trade deficit. Interest rates fell sharply and Wall Street became a one-way street, up. But that confidence is now cracking as the financial markets suddenly believe Fed chairman Paul Volcker's often-repeated warnings about the risks of a dollar collapse. "Volcker's been saying for a long time that a dollar freefall would be extremely dangerous - now he's got it," said David Jones, economist at Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc. The dollar fell below 144 yen today for the first time in 40 years as the Group of Seven finance ministers in Washington failed to convince the foreign exchange market that they have a credible strategy for redressing global trade imbalances, short of further depreciation of the dollar. Bonds suffered their biggest one-day drop in months amid worries that the dollar's slide will rekindle inflation, scare away foreign investors and force the Fed to tighten credit. The inflationary fears boosted gold bullion by more than 12 dlrs to a 1987 high of 432.20/70 dlrs an ounce, while the spike in interest rates pulled the Dow Jones Industrial Average down by 33 points to 2339. Norman Robertson, Mellon Bank chief economist, called the markets' instability frightening. He believes economic fundamentals do not justify the bearishness but said that "once you start the ball rolling it's difficult to stop." "There's a stark possibility that you could get a destabilizing drop in the dollar that forces up interest rates and drives us into recession. The markets are in a panic." Stephen Marris of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, has been warning for a long time that the controlled decline of the dollar since peaks of 3.47 marks and 264 yen in February 1985 could turn into a nightmare. "We're still more or less on track for a hard landing... But the agony may be fairly drawn out," Marris told Reuters. Marris does not expect the crisis to peak until later this year, but he warned that the situation is so fragile that it would take very little to touch off what he calls the second phase of the hard landing, whereby a loss of confidence in the dollar pushes up interest rates and leads to a recession. The stock market's reaction today and its sharp drop on March 30 shows how the loss of confidence could come about. The fact that it has not happened yet is consistent with historical experience, which teaches that domestic markets are not affected until a currency is in the final stages of its decline, Marris said. He has forecast a drop to about 125 yen. Marris felt that a major impetus for the dollar's latest weakness was the loss of credibility that central banks suffered when they failed to prevent the dollar from falling below 150 yen, the floor that the market believes was set as part of the G-7 Paris agreement in February. Robertson at Mellon, by contrast, said the loss of confidence was triggered last week when Washington announced plans to slap 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on Japanese electronic imports, raising the specter of a debilitating trade war. Many economists believe that long-run stability will not return to the markets until the root cause of the trade gap is addressed - excessive consumption in the U.S., Reflected in the massive budget deficit. But in the short term, given the failure of the G-7 and of central bank intervention, some feel that the Fed will have no choice but to tighten credit to restore faith in the dollar. "The only thing that will stop the dollar falling is a substantial increase in the discount rate and a corresponding cut abroad, at least by Japan," said Lanston's Jones. Marris expects the Fed to act quickly to raise interest rates, even at the risk of increasing the debt burden for American farmers, Latin American governments and others. But Robert Giordano, chief economist at Goldman Sachs and Co, scoffed at the notion. "It's ridiculous to think the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates when the dollar is weak against just one currency. This is yen strength, not dollar weakness," he said. Giordano said the market was ignoring the progress being made toward reducing the U.S. Budget deficit. "We're going to have one of the biggest reductions in the budget deficit relative to GNP in history this year, and nobody cares," he said, noting that only the deficit cut in 1968-69 will have been greater. He said he does not expect the dollar to collapse and thinks interest rates are likely to fall back later this year. But for now, market psychology has changed so abruptly that a further drop in the bond market cannot be ruled out. "Put on your helmets," Giordano said. REUTER 
SWISS BANKER SAYS COUNTRIES SEEK NEW DEBT ANSWERS

Countries meeting at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) this week are looking at a variety of new ways to resolve the problem of third world debt, Swiss National Bank president Pierre Languetin said. Languetin said meetings of the Group of 10 and the IMF Interim Committee today reached a consensus that a rescheduling like that of Mexico's debt must be the last of its kind. The Mexico rescheduling has still not been finally resolved six months after it started. Various members suggested other options to break the deadlock between debtor countries and their creditors, he said. Languetin said no recommendations were agreed, but he listed some of the suggestions. One involved individual banking systems each resolving the problem of small banks which refused to participate in reschedulings. It was this problem that had prevented completion of the Mexican rescheduling, he said. Debt-equity swaps could be expanded, as could 'on-lending', which some banks had proposed for Argentine debt. 'On-lending' allows banks to select customers for rescheduled amounts. Small banks which did not wish to reschedule might be forced to sign "exit bonds," prohibiting them from lending to that country again, he said. Languetin said none of these represented a general view. But he added "People are trying to get out of the corset." REUTER 
INTEREST RATE DIFFERENTIALS TOO SMALL, BANKER SAYS

Swiss National Bank President Pierre Languetin said a wider interest rate differential between the dollar and stronger currencies was needed to brake the dollar's fall. At a news conference, he said Japan and West Germany could try to stimulate their economies further by expanding money supply, but he added "I'm not so sure it would be desirable if monetary policy became more expansive. "But what would be useful is a greater differential in interest rates," he said. REUTER 
COR TEXACO <TX> SAYS IT CAN'T POST MORE THAN 1 BILLION

Texaco Inc, in documents filed with a Texas state appeals court, said a ruling forcing it to post a bond of more than one billion dlrs as security for a 10.53 billion dlr judgment would halt its credit agreements and force the company into bankruptcy. A hearing is scheduled Monday on Texaco's motion to reduce the amount of bond required by Texas state law to secure a 1985 judgment in favour of Pennzoil Co <PZL> in a dispute over the acquisition of Getty Oil. Pennzoil today said it proposed to the court that Texaco secure its bond with assets valued at about 50 pct of the bond. It said this would not force Texaco into bankruptcy. Richard Brinkman, Texaco's chief financial officer, said in a newly filed affidavit that the company was willing to use its 65 mln shares of <Texaco Canada Inc> as collateral for a letter of credit or loan to provide security to Pennzoil. The Canadian unit's stock, valued at about 1.8 billion dlrs, was returned to Texaco earlier this week after being held as security by a federal district court in New York while Texaco awaited a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court. Brinkman estimated that Texaco could borrow no more than one billion dlrs using its Canadian subsidiary stock as collateral for a loan. Texaco, he said, was unwilling to pledge the stock of its other foreign subsidiary corporations as security because the stock is not widely traded and its market value was unclear. Brinkman also said the company had already lost access to a four billion dlr revolving credit line since the initial jury verdict against Texaco. Texaco had been able to raise working capital by selling about 700 mln dlrs in receivables to a group of banks since the judgment, he said. The banks earlier this week notified Texaco that they would not purchase any additional receivables because of the company's uncertain status, Brinkman said. Four other credit agreements for 1.15 billion dlrs would also be cut off if a judgment of more than four billion dlrs is outstanding against the company and it is unable to obtain a stay, Brinkman said. "Since the Supreme Court decision on April 6, many other suppliers to Texaco have notified Texaco that their dealings with it are under review and a number have demanded cash payment or terminated their dealings with Texaco," he said. The Supreme Court overturned a lower federal court decision to cut Texaco's bond to one billion dlrs, saying the issue should first be considered in Texas courts. In a separate affidavit, <Morgan Stanley & Co> Managing Director Donald Brennan also said Texaco would be forced into bankruptcy if the company were forced to provide Pennzoil with security exceeding one billion dlrs. REUTER 
IMF, WORLD BANK CRITICAL OF AGRICULTURE PROTECTION

A committee of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank said protectionist agricultural policies of industrial countries were a major cause of depressed global commodity prices. The joint Development Committee, in a communique released following day-long discussions, said an improved environment for commodities was extremely important to the long-term viability of developing countries. The committee also criticised the slow-down in lending to debtor nations. Poorer countries, which rely primarily on raw commodity sales to industrial nations to pay their debts, have been highly critical of protectionist agricultural policies in the United States, Western Europe and Japan. "Ministers identified protectionist agricultural policies as a major cause of distortions including depressed commodity prices on world markets, of surplus production and of budgetary drain," the communique said. The communique, delayed because of disputes over specific language, was the final statement by the IMF and the bank after week-long semi-annual meetings of the two lending agencies. Earlier, the IMF's powerful Interim Committee added its voice to growing criticism of delays by commercial banks on critically needed loan packages for debt-laden developing countries. The committee said it welcomed the exploration of new procedures and financing techniques that will help mobilise new financial support for indebted countries. On Thursday, U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker, in a statement to the policy-making committee, said commercial bank lending to debtor nations last year was disappointing and more flexibility in loan programs was needed. "Doubts about financing can clearly undermine the resolve to carry out needed reforms," Baker said. The Development Committee also joined in the criticism, noting that there had been a declining flow of capital to the developing countries that "has been particularly significant in the case of flows from commercial banks." A number of bank negotiations are bogged down over details including financial packages for Mexico, Nigeria and Argentina. The banks, acknowledging it has been difficult to complete deals, say part of the blame goes to the developing countries for not making sufficient reform to make them good credit risks. REUTER 
TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS

Taiwan announced plans for another round of import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United States. Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry's Customs Administration Department, told reporters the list of products included 60 items asked by Washington. "The move is part of our government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners, particularly from the United States," he said. He said the ministry sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products as cosmetics, bicycles, apples, radios, garments, soybeans and television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct. The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly starting on April 20, he added. Taiwan introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the United States, the island's largest trading partner. Washington however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei. Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. It widened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier, Taiwan's official figures show. Today's announcement came before a departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington for a series of trade talks with U.S. Officials. The delegation's leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters last night he was leaving with "a heavy heart," meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress. Taiwan's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest, after Japan and Canada. Siew said the talks, starting on April 14, would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American products, purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment, import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property. "I am afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER 
PATON REPORTS U.S. GREEN COFFEE ROASTINGS HIGHER

U.S. roastings of green coffee in the week ended April 4 were about 275,000 (60-kilo) bags, including that used for soluble production, compared with 215,000 bags in the corresponding week of last year and about 320,000 bags in the week ended March 28, George Gordon Paton and Co Inc reported. It said cumulative roastings for calendar 1987 now total 4,440,000 bags, compared with 4,540,000 bags by this time last year. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE LEADER CALLS FOR INTEREST RATE CUTS

Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.) called on major industrial countries to make a pledge at the coming economic summit in Venice to cut interest rates. "I think at the summit meeting in Venice what we ought to be trying to do is to get the other major industrial nations that are involved to bring interest rates down, say, one pct," Bentsen told NBC Television's "Meet the Press." Bentsen said coordinated rate cuts could take "billions off the debt service of the Latin countries" and help ease protectionist pressures in the industrial countries. Bentsen also South Korea and Taiwan should be pressured to revalue their currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar. "You take the Taiwanese, with an enormous capital surplus, enormous trade surplus, and we've had very little cooperation there," he said. Departing Deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman told the same television network he agreed that the U.S. dollar had not fallen enough against the currencies of some countries. "I think that more does have to be done there in negotiations with the countries involved, the so-called NICs (newly industrialized countries)," he said. Darman said such negotiations with newly industrialized countries were underway privately. Bentsen predicted Congress and the White House would agree on a fiscal 1988 budget that would raise between 18 and 22 billion dlrs in new revenues. The Texas senator said a series of excise taxes would be considered by Congress, including an extension of the telephone tax and new levies on liquor and cigarettes. Bentsen said he supported an oil import fee, but that it would not happen without President Reagan's support. Darman called for a "top level negotiation" between the White House and Congress on a budget compromise that would include asset sales, some excise taxes, cuts in middle-class entitlement programs, "a reasonable, steady rate of growth in defense" and reform of the budget process. Reuter 
SHULTZ BEGINS TALKS WITH SHEVARDNADZE

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze met today an in elegant Moscow mansion in pursuit of the first superpower arms control agreement in nearly a decade. Shultz, accompanied by senior advisers and technical experts, arrived from Helsinki aboard a U.S. Air Force plane and went straight into a closed-door meeting with Shevardnadze and Soviet negotiators. State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters that U.S. Arms control advisers had been told not to discuss the U.S. Proposals with the press. U.S. Officials have been optimistic about the possibility of progress at the talks, scheduled to end on Wednesday. Shultz has been more guarded, saying that if the Soviet officials approached the talks in the same constructive spirit as the Americans "we should be able to move the ball along in a very positive way." Shultz is expected to protest about a spying network that has come to light at the U.S. Embassy and which has cast a shadow over his talks. For its part the Soviet Union has said its diplomatic missions in the United States are subjected to surveillance and has accused Washington of "spy-mania." Shevardnadze met Shultz with a handshake at the door of the ornate guest house built by a Russian merchant, now belonging to the Foreign Ministry. Later, in the white marble room where the discussions were being held, they had to be prompted by photographers to shake hands again. "There was no instinctive warmth," an observer said. Reuter 
SHULTZ ARRIVES IN MOSCOW FOR ARMS TALKS

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz arrived in Moscow for talks with Soviet leaders likely to focus on nuclear arms reductions. Shultz flew in from Helsinki and drove straight from the airport to a meeting with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. The three days of talks are overshadowed by an espionage row between the two powers. Shultz has said he wants to discuss it but Soviet officials have indicated they expect him to concentrate on disarmament issues. Reuter 
U.S. FEEDER STEER PRICE

The U.S. Feeder Steer Price, or USFSP, as posted by the CME is calculated by Cattle Fax and represents the price used for cash settlement of the CME Feeder Cattle contract. The USFSP is a seven-calendar-day average of feeder steer prices from 27 states, based on auction and direct country sales for feeder steers that weigh between 600 and 800 lbs and are estimated to grade between 60 and 80 pct choice when fed to slaughter weight. April 9 Previous quote 70.03 69.87 Reuter 
COLUMBIA GAS <CG> SEEKS CONTRACT COST RECOVERY

Columbia Gas Transmission corp said it made an abbreviated, streamlined filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover a portion if its costs of renegotiating high-cost gas purchase contracts. Recently, the Columbia Gas System Inc pipeline subsidiary said, FERC denied on procedural grounds and without prejudice a proposal to include these costs in the company's most recent purchased gas adjustment -- or PGA -- filing. Noting it has has asked for a rehearing on the denial ruling, Columbia Gas said it would withdraw its alternative filing if the commission grantes its request for a rehearing to include the contract renegotiation costs in its PGA or consolidates this issue in the pipeline's general rate filing and permit recovery, subject to refund, effective April one. The company said the alternative filing seeks to recover about 79 mln dlrs a year through the pipeline's non-gas sales commodity rates. This annual amortization amount is based on recovery of about 653 mln drls over an 8-1/4 year period, beginning April 1, 1987. Columbia Gas said the filing would increase the pipeline commodity rates by 15.74 cts per mln Btu to 2.95 dlrs per mln. The company said it orginially sought to include these costs in its PGA since the payments to products resulted in almost five billion dlrs in prospective price relief and were not related to take-or-pay buyout costs. It explained this interpretation was based on FERC's April 10, 1985, Statement of Policy which said that only take-or-pay buyout costs must be recovered through a general rate filing under the Natural Gas Act. As a result of renegotiating contracts for high-cost gas, Columbia Gas said, it has been able to reduce the average price paid for gas purchased from Southwest producers to 1.96 dlrs per mln Btu in December 1986 from 3.64 dlrs per mln in April 1985. The pipeline said Southwestern producers account for 46 pct of its total available gas supply this year. Reuter 
CBT NIGHT TRADING SESSION SEEN GETTING APPROVAL

The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, CFTC, is expected to accept the Chicago Board of Trade's, CBT, proposal to establish a night trading session when the commission meets Wednesday, CFTC officials said. CBT has proposed starting an evening trading session between 1800 and 2100 local time in Treasury bond and Treasury note futures and options on the two futures contracts. The exchange hopes to launch the experiment April 30. While CFTC staff have raised numerous questions about how the evening session will operate, they have not discovered any major obstacle to approval, CFTC sources said. "We are not anticipating any problems with approval," a CBT official said. CBT President Thomas Donovan and CBT Chairman Karsten Mahlmann have been in the Far East this month to drum up support for the night session. Reuter 
TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS

Taiwan announced plans for another round of import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United States. Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry's Customs Administration Department, on Saturday told reporters the list of products included 60 items asked by Washington. He said the ministry sent a proposal to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products as cosmetics, bicycles, apples, radios, garments, soybeans and television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct. The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly starting on April 20, he added. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 280,000 to 300,000 head versus 294,000 week ago and 303,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 120,000 to 126,000 head versus 120,000 week ago and 124,000 a year ago. Reuter 
USDA CHANGES LOW PROTEIN WHEAT TERMINAL PRICES

The U.S. Agriculture Department has lowered its ASCS terminal prices for low protein hard red winter and hard red spring wheat at a number of locations, a senior USDA official said. USDA reduced the price of hard red winter wheat at Kansas City and Texas by six cents, at Minneapolis and Duluth by 32 cents and at St Louis by nine cents, Ralph Klopfenstein, deputy administrator of commodity operations at the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, said. The department also lowered the terminal price of hard red spring wheat at Minneapolis and Duluth by 32 cents, he said. In addition, USDA cut the Pacific Northwest price of hard red spring wheat by 31 cents, USDA officials who asked not to be identified said. The officials said hard red spring wheat prices at Chicago, Denver and Toledo were adjusted by about the same amount as at Pacific Northwest, Duluth and Minneapolis. The price changes should lead to a pickup of PIK and roll activity, Klopfenstein said. The price change was decided upon last week and will be effective today, he said. Klopfenstein also said the department raised the premiums on high protein wheat to offset the drop in low protein wheat prices, meaning the net price on any wheat commanding a protein premium would remain unchanged. Reuter 
TEXACO CANADA <TXC> UNAFFECTED BY LEGAL MOVE

Texaco Canada Inc said its business operations, its plans and financial integrity are unaffected by yesterday's move by 78 pct-owner Texaco Inc <TX> to file for protection under U.S. bankruptcy law. Texaco Canada chief executive Peter Bijur said in a statement that "it is business as usual for us on Monday morning." Texaco Inc added in a statement that it "has never operated outside the U.S., and relations with all foreign governments and activities of interest to them and their citizens are not affected" by its legal dispute with Pennzoil Co <PZL>. Reuter 
FHLBB CHANGES SHORT-TERM DISCOUNT NOTE RATES

The Federal Home Loan Bank Board adjusted the rates on its short-term discount notes as follows: MATURITY NEW RATE OLD RATE MATURITY 30-140 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 30-179 days 141-160 days 6.13 pct 6.08 pct 180-200 days 161-182 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 201-274 days 183-200 days 6.17 pct 6.18 pct 275-290 days 201-360 days 5.00 pct 5.00 pct 291-360 days Reuter 
GIANT BAY <GBYLF> IN IDAHO GOLD VENTURE

Giant Bay Resources Ltd said it signed an agreement in principle with Hecla Mining Co for an operating joint venture on Hecla's Stibnite, Idaho, gold deposit. Giant Bay said if its bioleaching technology is used for ore processing, it will have the right to acquire a working interest in the property. It said it may spend as much as three mln U.S. dlrs, excluding capital costs to bring the mine into production. It said drilling has indicated substantial sulphide reserves with a gold grade of about 0.1 ounce a ton, and early tests show the gold ore responds to bioleaching. Reuter 
ASARCO UPS U.S. LEAD PRICE 0.50 CT TO 27 CTS

Asarco Inc said it is increasing its base spot sales price for refined lead by one-half cent to 27.0 cents a lb, FOB, delivered in carload lots, effective immediately. Reuter 
BANKERS TRUST <BT> RAISES BROKER LOAN RATE

Bankers Trust Co said it is raising its broker loan rate to 7-1/2 pct from 7-1/4 pct, effective immediately. U.S. Trust Co, the only other bank to publicize its broker rate, was already posting 7-1/2 pct. Reuter 
GLOBAL LOWERS HEAVY FUELS PRICES

Global Petroleum corp said today it lowered the posted cargo prices for number six fuel in the new york harbor 45 to 75 cts a barrel, effective today. The decrease brings the prices for one pct sulphur to 20.75 dlrs, down 45 cts, two pct sulphur 20.10 dlrs, down 75 cts, 2.2 pct sulphur 19.75 dlrs, down 75 cts and 2.5 pct sulphur 19.50 dlrs, down 75 cts. Prices for 0.3 pct and 0.5 pct sulphur remained unchanged at 22.50 and 21.85 dlrs, it said. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON CATTLE TO CANARY ISLANDS

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 2,750 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The cattle are for delivery May, 1987-October, 1988, it said. The bonus was 1,379.00 dlrs per head and was made to Holstein-Friesian, Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory. An additional 175 headed of dairy cattle for still available to the Canary Islands under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said. Reuter 
MOODY'S MAY DOWNGRADE THREE FRENCH BANKS

Moody's Investors Service Inc said it may downgrade the top-flight Aaa ratings of Societe Generale, Banque Nationale de Paris and Credit Lyonnais. The rating agency cited the ongoing deregulation of the French banking industry and financial markets. Moody's said it anticipates increasing competition and reduced profitability of the banks' core businesses. The senior debt and certificates of deposit of the three banks are rated Aaa. However, their Prime-1 commercial paper ratings are not under review. Issues supported by long-term letters of credit of the banks may also be affected. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET THREE-DAY REPURCHASE PACTS

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. Government securities market to add temporary reserves directly by arranging three-day System repurchase agreements, economists said. They said the Fed may add the reserves indirectly instead via a large round, two billion dlrs or more, of customer repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged a high 6.35 pct on Friday, opened at 6-7/16 pct and traded between there and 6-1/2 pct. Reuter 
CBT MMI STOCK INDEX FUTURES TO EXPIRE THURSDAY

The Chicago Board of Trade's (CBT) April Major Market Index (MMI) stock index futures will expire 1515 CDT Thursday instead of Friday because of the Good Friday holiday, the exchange said. The Chicago Board Options Exchange said April options on the Standard and Poor's 100 and 500 stock indexes, currency options and about one-third of the listed individual equity options will expire at their normal time Saturday, April 18, although the last day of trading will be Thursday in those contracts. Reuter 
TAIWAN ANNOUNCES NEW ROUND OF IMPORT TARIFF CUTS

Taiwan announced plans for another round of import tariff cuts on 862 foreign goods shortly before trade talks with Washington which officials described as a move to help balance trade with the United States. Wang Der-Hwa, Deputy Director of the Finance Ministry's Customs Administration Department, told reporters the list of products included 60 items asked by Washington. "The move is part of our government efforts to encourage imports from our trading partners, particularly from the United States," he said. He said the ministry sent a proposal today to the cabinet that the tariffs on such products as cosmetics, bicycles, apples, radios, garments, soybeans and television sets be cut by between five and 50 pct. The cabinet was expected to give its approval next Thursday and the new tariff cuts would be implemented possibly starting on April 20, he added. Taiwan introduced a sweeping tariff cut on some 1,700 foreign products last January aimed at helping reduce its growing trade surplus with the United States, the island's largest trading partner. Washington however was not satisfied with the cuts and pressed for more reductions as a way of cutting its huge trade deficit with Taipei. Washington's deficit with Taipei rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs last year from 10.2 billion in 1985. It widened to 3.61 billion in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year earlier, Taiwan's official figures show. Today's announcement came before a departure later today of a 15-member Taiwan delegation for Washington for a series of trade talks with U.S. Officials. The delegation's leader, Vincent Siew, told reporters last night he was leaving with "a heavy heart," meaning that he would face tough talks in Washington because of rising protectionist sentiments in the U.S. Congress. Taiwan's 1986 trade surplus with Washington was the third largest, after Japan and Canada. Siew said the talks, starting on April 14, would cover U.S. Calls for Taiwan to open its market to American products, purchases of major U.S. Machinery and power plant equipment, import tariff cuts and protection of intellectual property. "I am afraid this time we have to give more than take from our talks with the U.S.," he said without elaborating. REUTER 
BULGARIA, ROMANIA GRAIN CROP SEEN LESS FAVORABLE

Current prospects for this year's grain crop in Bulgaria and Romania appear less favorable than in 1986, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Belgrade said in a field report. The report said the assessment was based on travel in the two countries from March 30 to April 4. It said crop conditions were better than earlier expected following the extreme dry conditions last fall and the prolonged winter temperatures this spring. However, in general plant development was at least three weeks or more behind normal this spring, and conditions varied greatly by regions, the report said. Fields seeded during the optimum period last fall, and especially those receiving supplemental irrigation water (about 65 pct of the fields observed), appeared to be in good condition, with little evidence of winterkill, while others varied considerably, the report said. Fields lacking adequate moisture last fall showed weak and uneven stands. Spotty germination and winterkill in those fields averaged 10 to 30 pct, it said. Reuter 
SOVIET TANKERS SET TO CARRY KUWAITI OIL

Kuwait has agreed to charter tankers from the Soviet Union in a move to protect its oil exports through the Mideast Gulf, diplomatic sources said. They said the agreement followed months of talks with the Soviet Union and the U.S. On ways to secure its oil exports after Iran started to attack Kuwaiti-connected vessels in retaliation for Kuwait's backing for Iran's war enemy Iraq. Diplomats said they expect three Soviet tankers initially to reinforce other flags already supporting Kuwait's 22-tanker fleet. The diplomats said they knew of no deal for Moscow to provide a naval escort for its own vessels, but "the idea of protection is implicit," one said. They said Soviet cargo ships bound for Kuwait in the past to unload arms and materiel for road delivery to Iraq were known to have sailed under escort. So far, none of the Soviet ships are known to have been attacked by Iran. Diplomats said they expected the chartered Soviet tankers to sail between Kuwait and Khor Fakkan on the United Arab Emirates (UAE) coast a short way outside the Strait of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange 1.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said Federal funds were trading at 6-1/2 pct when the Fed began its temporary and indirect supply of reserves to the banking system. Most had expected the Fed to supply reserves directly via System repurchase agreements or to add them indirectly through two billion dlrs or more of customer repurchase agreements. Some believe the Fed is adding fewer reserves than are needed to keep upward pressure on rates and so help the dollar. Reuter 
BACHE SECURITIES SETS NAME CHANGE, EXPANSION

Bache Securities Inc, 80 pct-owned by Prudential-Bache Securities Inc, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co of America, said it would change its name on April 15 to Prudential-Bache Securities Canada Ltd as the first part of a major expansion in Canada. The investment dealer said the expansion would involve increased research and retail staff, three new Canadian branches by year-end and enhanced corporate financing ability. Bache chief executive George McGough told a news conference that Bache might expand its 20 mln Canadian dlr capital base by up to seven times over the next several years. McGough said the move resulted from the proposed June 30 deregulation of Ontario's securities industry, which will lift existing restrictions on the growth of foreign dealers such as Bache and allow it access to its U.S. parent's 134 billion U.S. dlrs of capital and products offered by Prudential Insurance Co of Canada, also owned by Bache's U.S. parent. Stressing that company growth would be internal, McGough told reporters "that our game plan does not call for an acquisition," saying Bache recently rejected merger overtures from three other investment dealers in Canada. McGough declined to identify the names of the three dealers that approached Bache. He said that Bache hoped to rank in the top five Canadian investment dealers within the next few years. It now ranks about 14th. McGough voiced confidence that Bache's plans would be unaffected by any delay past June 30 in the implementation of financial deregulation resulting from an ongoing dispute between the Canadian and Ontario governments over regulatory jusisdiction. He said regulators had already approved the name change and indicated they would approve Bache's expansion. Reuter 
U.S. TRUST CO <USTC> RAISES BROKER LOAN RATE

U.S. Trust Co said it raised its broker loan rate to 7-3/4 pct from 7-1/2 pct, effective immediately. Bankers Trust Co <BT>, which also quotes its broker loan rate publicly, raised its rate to 7-1/2 pct earlier today. Reuter 
TEXACO NETHERLANDS UNAFFECTED BY CHAPTER 11 FILING

Texaco Petroleum Maatschaapij (Netherlands) BV said its operations were unaffected by yesterday's move by Texaco Inc <TX.N> to file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code. A Texaco spokesman said the Dutch unit, wholly owned by Texaco Inc through holding companies, had its own financial relationship with banks, its own distribution facilities and refinery, and bought its own crude oil and products. There had been no negative reaction from trading partners to the U.S. Move, although there was some negative influence on publicity, he said. "The Dutch operations are not dependent on the U.S. For money or products. We are informing our customers that our business is not affected in any way," the spokesman said. He said trading partners had not made demands for stricter credit terms than was normal in the international oil markets. Spot market traders at Dutch arms of other major companies said they were acting as usual towards Texaco so far, but some were maintaining contact with their headquarters' credit control offices. One trader said his company hoped to meet representatives of Texaco personally to clarify the position. Reuter 
TRITON <OIL> SAYS PARIS BASIN RESERVES UP 39 PCT

Triton Energy Corp said proven reserves of the Villespedue oil field in France's Paris Basin were estimated at a total of 67.5 mln barrels on March one, up 39 pct from 48.7 mln barrels on May 31, 1986. Triton said its 60 pct owned <Triton Europe Plc> subsidiary has a 50 pct interest in the field which is located 50 miles east of Paris. The other 50 pct is held by <Total Exploration S.A.>, the field's operator. Reuter 
STANDARD <SRD>,MOBIL <MOB>PLAN OFFSHORE PLATFORM

Standard Oil Co said a contract has been awarded to <CBS Engineering Inc> for a drilling and production platform to be installed in Ewing Bank Block 826 in the Gulf of Mexico where Standard and Mobil Corp each own a 40 pct interest. Standard said its Standard Oil Production Co subsidiary will operate the platform which is being designed to produce 15,000 barrels of oil and 50 mln cubic feet of gas daily. The platform is now expected to be installed in the summer of 1988. Other owners are Kerr-McGee Corp <KMG> with 16.66 pct and <Prudential Insurance Co of America> with 3.34 pct. Reuter 
U.S. FEBRUARY TRADE TO BE REPORTED ON NEW BASIS

The February monthly merchandise trade figures to be reported Tuesday by the Commerce Department will be on a new basis reflecting more recent data, so avoiding future revisions of the monthly figure, Commerce officials said. The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion dlrs will be revised, but the February figure will be a final one, officials said. Previously, the initial monthly figure has had to be revised in subsequent months because of the time lag between the report and the compiling of final estimates on imports and exports. The reporting of the February trade data was delayed several weeks to permit gathering latest figures on imports and exports to give a clearer picture of the monthly trade balance. Reuter 
DHL WORLDWIDE EXPRESS BROADENS NETWORK

<DHL Worldwide Express> added 35 overseas and 10 domestic service centers to its delivery network. The private air express company said one of the additions includes the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), bringing to eight the number of Eastern Bloc countries it serves. Reuter 
HOECHST PLANS OFFERING TO FINANCE MERGER DEBT

Hoechst Celanese Corp, a recently formed subsidiary of Hoechst AG of Frankfurt, West Germany, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a 500 mln dlr debt offering to repay part of its merger debt. Hoechst, which acquired Celanese Corp on Feb 27, said it plans to offer 200 mln dlrs of notes due 1997 and 300 mln dlrs of debentures due 2017 to repay part of the debt incurred in the takeover. A group led by First Boston Corp will underwrite the offering, the company said. Reuter 
CANADA APPROVES U.S. GAS EXPORTS BY PROGAS

ProGas Ltd was issued an export licence to sell 10.3 billion cubic meters of natural gas to Ocean State Power Co of Burrillville, Rhode Island, the federal energy department said. The sale, covering a 20 year period beginning May 1, 1989, was previously recommended by the National Energy Board. Contract terms were not released. Reuter 
U.S. FEBRUARY TRADE TO BE REPORTED ON NEW BASIS

The February monthly merchandise trade figures to be reported Tuesday by the Commerce Department will be on a new basis reflecting more recent data, so avoiding future revisions of the monthly figure, Commerce officials said. The overall January deficit of 14.8 billion dlrs will be revised, but the February figure will be a final one, officials said. Previously, the initial monthly figure has had to be revised in subsequent months because of the time lag between the report and the compiling of final estimates on imports and exports. The reporting of the February trade data was delayed several weeks to permit gathering latest figures on imports and exports to give a clearer picture of the monthly trade balance. Reuter 
AMEX STARTS TRADING AMERICAN BUSINESSPHONES <AB>

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has started trading American Businessphones Inc's common shares, which had traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
OSICOM TECHNOLOGIES IN INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

<Osicom Technologies Inc> said it filed for an initial public offering of one million shares of common stock. Osicom said it filed the registration statement on April 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sherwood Securities Corp proposes to act as the managing underwriter for the offering, Osicom said. The company is a distributor of products used primarily to increase data storage capacity of microcomputers, it said. A spokeswoman for the company said she expects the stock to be traded on the Nasdaq exchange under the symbol <OSIC.O>. Reuter 
U.S. CORN EXPORTS SEEN WELL AHEAD OF LAST YEAR

Grain traders and analysts expect today's weekly U.S. corn export inspection figure to be well above last year, with wheat slightly better and soybeans about the same. Corn export inspection guesses ranged from 40.0 to 44.0 mln bushels for the week ended April 9, compared up 46.6 mln inspected a week earlier and 15.2 mln in the year-ago week. Soybean export estimates ranged from 12.0 to 15.0 mln bushels versus 10.8 mln exported last week and 13.2 mln last year. Export guesses for all wheat ranged from 16.0 to 20.0 mln bushels, compared with 16.4 mln last week and 11.2 mln last year. Reuter 
WORLD BANK PRESIDENT OPPOSES DEBT FORGIVENESS

World Bank President Barber Conable said he opposed forgiving developing countries' debt because the proposal, if adopted, would lead to a cutoff in lending to the indebted countries. "I think (debt) forgiveness will simply create an environment in which no more money will go into development and a lot of the world will be consigned to poverty and to instability indefinitely," he told ABC Television on Sunday. A number of bills have been introduced in Congress that would require commercial banks to forgive a least a portion of the debt owed them by cash-starved developing countries. "I think we've got to find ways of encouraging continuous improvement in policies, of wise use of money in short, rather than trying to turn everybody off," Conable said. Conable told ABC's "Business World" he supported Treasury Secretary James Baker's debt plan as an "andidote to debt." Baker has said the best way to reduce the developing countries' debt burden is to boost their growth rates through reformed domestic policies and increased commercial bank lending. Reuter 
CBT T-NOTE OPTIONS SET VOLUME RECORD

The Chicago Board of Trade, CBT, achieved record volume in trading of 10-year U.S. Treasury note futures-options April 10. Volume reached 38,402 contracts, up from the previous record of 16,349 contracts set April 9. Reuter 
ARGENTINA SAYS NEAR DEAL WITH CREDITOR BANKS

Argentine Treasury Secretary Mario Brodersohn said the country is near accord with creditor banks on refinancing about 30 billion dlrs of foreign debt. Brodersohn, in an interview from Washington with Argentine television, said Saturday the major obstacles to an agreement with creditor banks had been overcome. "Only details remain to be resolved," he said. Economy Minister Juan Sourrouille on Thursday in a speech at the IMF accused creditor banks of standing in the way of an accord by demanding conditions incompatible with Argentina's IMF standby program. Brodersohn said that since there "has been progress. I'd say that we are now working on the fine print of the agreement." Negotiations between Argentina and the banks have been stuck over differences on the question of capitalisation of the debt as well as on-lending programs. Argentina has resisted a renewal of on-lending programs and sought an agreement whereby creditor banks would invest a fresh dollar for every dollar of debt capitalised. Reuter 
SHULTZ BEGINS ARMS TALKS WITH SHEVARDNADZE

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz was holding several hours of talks with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze today in pursuit of the first superpower arms control agreement in nearly a decade. Shultz, accompanied by a panoply of senior advisers and technical experts, went directly into a closed-door meeting with Shevardnadze and the Soviet delegation after arriving in Moscow from Helsinki aboard a U.S. Air Force jet. State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters traveling with the secretary that as the crucial talks got under way, U.S. Arms control advisers were instructed not to discuss the substance of the American proposals with the press. It has been reported previously that some of the proposals -- such as those dealing with President Ronald Reagan's "Star Wars" space shield against enemy missiles -- represent a hardening of the U.S. Position. Nevertheless, U.S. Officials have been optimistic about the possibility of progress on arms control during the talks, which are scheduled to end Wednesday. Reagan, who is believed to want an agreement before he leaves office in 1989, said last week that a breakthrough on an accord eliminating intermediate-range missiles (INF) in Europe was a distinct possibility. Reuter 
AMEX STARTS TRADING LAWRENCE INSURANCE <LWR>

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has started trading the common stock of Lawrence Insurance Group Inc, which went public today. Reuter 
EC MEAT DIRECTIVE DEADLINE SEEN FLEXIBLE

U.S. officials said they held out little hope the European Community, EC, would withdraw a controversial meat inspection requirement, due to go into effect April 30 and which U.S. meat producers claim will cut off their exports. But the officials said they expect the EC to allow U.S. plants to continue shipping meat through the end of the year provided they submit a plant improvement program with the U.S. Agriculture Department. The EC's so-called Third Country Meat Directive will require foreign meat processing plants to comply fully with EC inspection standards beginning April 30. The U.S. meat industry has prepared a petition requesting the Reagan administration to retaliate against the EC rule. At issue are U.S. meat exports to the EC valued at 132 mln dlrs in 1985. The EC rule would require all U.S. plants to make changes in their inspection methods, ranging from veterinary staffing to use of wood. Last December, the EC determined that only one U.S. cattle, one hog and one sheep slaughtering facility could be approved without further review. USDA would have to certify that the plants had corrected the deficiencies. All remaining plants with a history or potential of shipping to the EC -- totaling nearly 400 -- would require more significant changes in plant constructions or procedures before further EC review. Robert Hibbert, general counsel for the American Meat Institute, said the meat industry expected to submit a formal trade retaliation petition by April 30. An interagency committee is reviewing the industry's draft petition. An official at the U.S. Trade Representative's Office said U.S. officials continued to press the EC to withdraw the rule, but that "the chances of that are not too good at this time." However, there is the "expectation" in U.S. government and meat industry circles that the EC will continue to allow shipments, at least through the end of the calendar year, from U.S. plants that submit to USDA a plan on how they will bring their operations into conformity with the EC regulation, the USTR official said. Reuter 
U.S. BANKS LIKELY TO LIFT PRIME RATES AGAIN SOON

Major U.S. banks may lift prime lending rates again within days due to recent increases in their borrowing costs and speculation the Federal Reserve is nudging up interest rates to help the dollar, economists said. In what was the first prime rate boost since mid-1984, most banks in early April lifted their rates a quarter point to 7-3/4 pct, citing a reduced gap between the prime and their own cost of money. That spread has narrowed again. "A prime rate increase could happen as soon as tonight," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co International Inc. Brusca said a quarter-point prime rate rise to eight pct is justified because the spread between banks' cost of funds and the prime rate has narrowed to less than three quarters of a percentage point. He said that spread had averaged around 1.4 percentage points since last October until it fell below one point and triggered the April prime rate rise at most banks. "We could easily have another prime rate increase as soon as this week," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co. "We've got a fairly good chance of a prime rate rise in the near future," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corp. "Based on the spread between the prime rate and funding costs, you would ordinarily see a prime rate increase now," said Harold Nathan, economist at Wells Fargo Bank. However, he said banks may be reluctant to lift the prime because that would dampen already fairly weak business loan demand and because some are not sure the Fed will maintain recent upward pressure on money market interest rates. Nathan believes the Fed has let market pressures lift short-term rates in recent days to help the ailing dollar. He said "if there is widespread belief money market rates will stay high, a prime rate rise could occur at any time." Fed officials have long expressed concern that too steep a dollar drop could help rekindle U.S. inflation. As the dollar fell to a 40-year low against the yen Friday, currency traders said the Fed and other central banks supported the dollar. In addition to buying dollars outright, another way to stabilize the U.S. currency would be for the Fed to push U.S. interest rates higher relative to overseas rates. Based particularly on the Fed's reserve management actions on Friday and today, Nathan of Wells Fargo said "it has become clear that the Fed is not fully resisting upward rate pressure in the market. It is supplying fewer reserves than are needed." Bank funding costs and other short and long-term interest rates rose sharply Friday and today on heightened speculation that the Fed is gently firming monetary policy. That was because the Fed supplied far fewer reserves in the market than most economists had expected. On Friday, the Fed added reserves indirectly and in small amounts via one billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements with the Federal funds rate at which banks lend to one another high at 6-5/16 pct. With funds trading even higher at 6-1/2 pct today, the Fed arranged only a slightly larger 1.5 billion dlr round of customer repurchase agreements. "The Fed's actions on Friday and today show that it is offering only token resistance to upward funds rate pressures," said Jones of Lanston. "The Fed is focusing its policy attention mainly on the need to defend the dollar," Jones said. He believes it is merely shading policy toward restraint now, "but to have a major impact on the dollar, the Fed will have to tighten policy overtly at some point." Jones expects the Fed to foster higher market rates by becoming more restrictive in supplying reserves and, within four to six weeks, to raise its discount rate from 5-1/2 pct. Jones said a U.S. discount rate increase to six pct might well be accompanied by West German and Japanese rate cuts to further aid the dollar. Given likely Fed policy firming, he said both the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds (about 8.30 pct now) and the prime rate may be at 8-1/2 pct at end-June and nine pct by year's end. "The jury is still out on whether the Fed is tightening policy to defend the dollar," said Leslie of Discount Corp. He said tax-date pressures have been pushing up Fed funds lately. Leslie said Fed actions and reserve data once these pressures abate will show whether or not it is firming policy. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> EXTENDS MID-GRADE UNLEADED MARKETING

Exxon Co U.S.A. said it is expanding marketing of its mid-grade unleaded gasoline along the U.S. East Coast. The Exxon Corp subsidiary said the changeover to the 89-octane unleaded fuel will begin late this month and early next in major markets in Virginia, Maryland, Florida, and the District of Columbia. The product was introduced in New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and the Philadelphia area late last year. Reuter 
FIBERCOM TO INSTALL FIBER-OPTIC DATA NETWORK

<FiberCom Inc> said it signed a contract with <Computer Connection A/S>, Mjoendalen, Norway, to install a data communications network based on fiber optics. Under terms of the 3.5 mln dlr agreement, the company said it will supply Computer Connection with 6,000 transceivers and its WhisperNet local area network, which employs the Ethernet standard. FiberCom said the network will connected 125 of Norway's largest banks. It said the network will be the largest fiber-optic based data network in the world. Reuter 
HOMESTAKE <HM> MULLS BUYING ORE RESERVES

Homestake Mining Co is considering acquiring more gold ore reserves in addition to the company's exploration efforts, chief executive Harry Conger told Reuters in an interview. "We are looking at more options to acquire more reserves rather than just exploration," Conger said adding, "the move to consider acquisitions represents a change in the company's acquisitions policy." Conger said all of Homestake's current cash position of 120 mln dlrs would be available to acquire reserves. In addition, Homestake has two lines of credit totaling 150 mln dlrs which have not been drawn on today and could be used to finance an acquisition, he said. Conger said he anticipates 1987 exploration budget will be about the same as 1986 spending of 27.3 mln dlrs. Conger said exploration for precious metals may be slightly higher than last year's spending of 17.7 mln dlrs while oil and gas exploration spending will be slightly less than last year's 9.6 pct. Conger said he sees Homestake's 1987 gold production about the same as 1986 gold production of 669,594 ounces. However, 1987 first quarter production from its McLaughlin reserve will be about 10 pct lower than last year's 45,400 ounces due to start-up production problems. He said he believes gold prices will hold above the 400 U.S. dlr an ounce level for the rest of 1987. IN 1986, company earnings were based an average market price for gold of 368 dlrs an ounce. Conger said a three pct change in gold prices represents a 12 cts a share impact on earnings but he declined to give a specific forecast for 1987's first quarter, due to be released in 10 days, or for full year 1987 results. Reuter 
BROOKLYN UNION'S <BU> UNIT TO EXPAND DRILLING

Brooklyn Union Gas Co's Brooklyn Union Exploration Co Inc unit said it entered a 200 mln dlr three-year gas and oil exploration and development venture with Smith Offshore Exploration Co. The agreement calls for drilling of 10 to 12 offshore wells per year, primarily in the Gulf of Mexico area off the Texas and Louisiana coasts and 30 to 40 onshore Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast wells. Reuter 
COURT DISMISSES FMC <FMC> SUIT AGAINST BOESKY

FMC Corp's 225 mln dlr insider trading case against Wall Street arbitrageur Ivan Boesky was dismissed by a federal court, a court clerk said. Federal Judge Ann C. Williams, in an oral ruling, said FMC had not been harmed by trading in FMC stock by Boesky and other traders prior to FMC's two-billion dlr recapitalization last year. FMC had claimed insider trading by Boesky had forced it to increase the value of the recapitalization to 80 dlrs a share from 70 dlrs a share. FMC had charged that Boesky received confidential information about FMC's planned recapitalization from Dennis Levine, a former merger specialist with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. An FMC spokeswoman said in response to an inquiry that FMC might appeal the ruling, made in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, once a formal written decision is received. The written ruling is expected April 15. The spokeswoman said FMC might appeal alleged contract violations involved in the dispute. That part of the case, involving a contract between FMC and Goldman Sachs and Co, would be appealed to an Illinois state court, she said. Goldman Sachs was FMC's investment banker in its planned restructuring. A FMC spokeswoman said the contract was a standard contract under which Goldman Sachs advised FMC on the restructuring. "We are certainly taking a look at appealing" the ruling in Illinois state court, the FMC spokeswoman said in response to an inquiry. The suit claimed that Boesky bought 95,300 FMC shares between February 18 and February 21, 1986, selling those shares for a profit of 975,000 dlrs on February 21, the day FMC first said it was considering a recapitalization. Also, the suit said Boesky bought a further 1,922,000 FMC shares between March 12 and April four, acknowledging the purchase of a 7.5 pct stake in the company in a 13-D filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April seven. "We alleged his actions kept the stock price artificially high and put pressure on FMC to increase the terms of the recapitalization," the FMC spokeswoman said. The increase to 80 dlrs from 70 dlrs a share was announced April 26. Reuter 
CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR RICE TO ALGERIA - USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has authorized 3.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees for sales of U.S. rice to Algeria for fiscal year 1987 under the Export Credit Guarantee Program, GSM-102, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The additional guarantees increase the cumulative fiscal year 1987 program for sales of U.S. agricultural products to Algeria to 469.0 mln dlrs. To be eligible for the credit guarantee coverage, all sales under the new line must be registered and exported by September 30, 1987, the department aid. Reuter 
HOMESTAKE MULLS BUYING ORE RESERVES

Homestake Mining Co is considering acquiring more gold ore reserves in addition to the company's exploration efforts, chief executive Harry Conger told Reuters in an interview. Conger said, "the move to consider acquisitions represents a change in the company's acquistions policy." Conger said all of Homestake's current cash position of 120 mln dlrs would be available to acquire reserves. In addition, Homestake has two lines of credit totaling 150 mln dlrs which have not been drawn on and could be used to finance an acquisition, he said. Conger said he anticipates 1987 exploration budget will be about the same as 1986 spending of 27.3 mln dlrs. Conger said exploration for precious metals may be slightly higher than last year's spending of 17.7 mln dlrs while oil and gas exploration spending will be slightly less than last year's 9.6 pct. Conger said he sees Homestake's 1987 gold production about the same as 1986 gold production of 669,594 ounces. However, 1987 first quarter production from its McLaughlin reserve will be about 10 pct lower than last year's 45,400 ounces due to start-up production problems. He said he believes gold prices will hold above the 400 U.S. dlr an ounce level for the rest of 1987. Reuter 
AMERICAN EXCHANGE ELECTS 10 BOARD MEMBERS

The American Stock Exchange said 10 governors were elected to its 25-member board of governors at the annual membership meeting today. The exchange said there were eight new members, including five from the public sector, among the ten elected to the board. Elected to three-year terms from the public sector were Ernst and Whinney Chairman Ray J. Groves, Hasbro Inc Chairman Stephen D. Hassenfeld, Bowery Savings Bank Chairman Richard Ravitch, and Phelps-Stokes Fund President Franklin H. Williams. Elected to a two-year term from the public sector was James R. Jones, a former congressman anda partner in Dickstein Shapiro and Morin. The Amex said Greenberg Securities Co President Mark D. Greenberg and Jacee Securities Inc President Joel L. Lovett were the industry representatives elected to three year terms on the board and Johnson Lane Space Smith and Co Inc President David T. Johnson was elected to a one year term as an industry representative. It said two industry representatives were returned to the board for three year terms -- Rotan Mosle Inc President R. John Stanton Jr. and Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc President sGeorge A. Vonder Linden. Reuter 
U.S. EXPORTERS REPORT 350,000 TONNES CORN SOLD TO UNKNOWN DESTINATIONS FOR 1986/87



U.S. TRADE PANEL RULES AGAINST BRAZILIAN  ORANGE JUICE IMPORTS, WILL IMPOSE DUTUES



U.S. AGENCY RULES AGAINST BRAZIL ORANGE JUICE

The U.S. International Trade Commission, ITC, voted to authorize the Commerce Department to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice. The ITC voted 3-2 in favor of the anti-dumping petition in its final ruling on the matter. Today's ITC ruling was consistent with the Commerce Department's final ruling of March 9, and activates an anti-dumping duty of 1.96 pct on imports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice, Stephen Vastagh, ITC investigator said. The ITC found that Brazilian orange juice imports have injured U.S. producers. The Commerce Department had already ruled that the imports were unfairly priced, and lowered to 1.96 pct the anti-dumping margin that in a preliminary decision last fall had been set at 8.5 pct, Vastagh said. The U.S. government has been requiring bond to be posted on imports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice since Commerce's preliminary ruling of last October 23, he said. Commerce had ruled that one major Brazilian producer -- Cutrale -- would be excluded from the anti-dumping duty. Brazilian imports account for about 40 pct of total U.S. supply, Vastagh said. Between December 1985 and November 1986, the United States imported the equivalent of 546 mln gallons of Brazilian orange juice worth 622 mln dlrs, he said. Currently, the United States requires a 35-cent per gallon tariff on orange juice imports, Vastagh said. An ITC spokesman said the agency would forward its final report on the anti-dumping case to Commerce by April 22. Commerce then will process the anti-dumping order and transmit it to U.S Customs, which will liquidate bond entries dating from Commerce's preliminary ruling and begin assessing duties, Vastagh said. He said about 12 Brazilian orange juice exporters, including three major shippers, would be affected by the decision. Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON APRIL 9

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on April 10 to 3.373 billion dlrs from 3.523 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts fell to 11.645 billion dlrs from 11.869 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 15.018 billion dlrs compared with 15.392 billion dlrs on April 9. Reuter 
DOE RESOLVES ISSUES WITH ROYAL DUTCH <RD> UNIT

The Energy Department said it had approved in final form an agreement that resolves all remaining issues with Shell Oil Co over oil pricing and allocation controls that ended in 1981. Under the agreement, The Royal Dutch/Shell Group unit agreed to pay 20 mln dlrs to settle refiner pricing issues and 160 mln dlrs to settle crude oil pricing issues, DOE said. DOE said that before making the pact final, it modified it to reflect Shell's compliance with the Tertiary Incentive Program, a provision not in the version published last Dec 31. reuter 
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES GETS 502.1 MLN DLR CONTRACT

The Pratt and Whitney Government Products Division of United Technologies Corp <UTX> is being awarded a 502.1 mln dlr increase to an Air Force contract for alternate fighter engine and support equipment, the Defense Department said. It said the contract, which funds work related to F100-FW-220 engines, combines purchases for the U.S. Air Force, Korea, Singapore, Thailand, Egypt and the Netherlands under the Foreign Military Sales program. Work on the contract is expected to be completed December 1988, the department said. Reuter 
U.S. BILL AUCTION RATES AVERAGE 5.98, 6.08 PCT

The U.S. Treasury said its weekly auction of three-month bills produced an average rate of 5.98 pct, with a 6.08 pct rate on six-month bills. These rates compared with averages of 5.53 pct for the three- and 5.63 pct for the six-month bills sold last week. The bond-equivalent yield on three-month bills was 6.17 pct. Accepted bids ranges from 5.92 to 5.99 pct and 60 pct of the bids at the high, or stopout rate, were taken. For six months, the yield was 6.38 pct and the bids ranged from 5.98 pct to 6.10 pct with 48 pct of the bids accepted. The Treasury said it received 25.99 billion dlrs of bids for the three-month bills, including 1.2 billion dlrs in non-competitive bids from the public. It accepted 6.6 billion dlrs of bids, including 2.1 billion dlrs from the Federal Reserve and 180 mln dlrs from foreign and international monetary authorities. Some 24.7 billion dlrs in bids for six-month bills were received, including 832 mln dlrs in non-competitives. The Treasury accepted 6.6 billion dlrs, including 1.8 billion dlrs from the Fed and 1.2 billion dlrs from foreign and international authorities. The average price for the three-month bills was 98.488 and prices ranged from 98.504 to 98.486. The average price for the six-months bills was 96.926, and prices ranged from 96.977 to 96.916. The average yield on the three-month bills was the highest since 5.99 pct on June 30, 1986. The average yield on the six-month bills was the highest since 6.13 pct on June 23, 1986. Reuter 
GE <GE> VENTURE WINS JET ENGINE ORDER

CFM International, a joint venture of <SNECMA> of France and General Electric Co said it received an order for its CFM56-5 engines worth 320 mln dlrs from <GPA Airbus 320 Group Ltd, Shannon, Ireland. The company said the engines will power 25 twin-engine Airbus Industrie A320 aircraft. Reuter 
SLATER <SSI.A.TO> PLANS U.S. MODERNIZATION

Slater Industries Inc said it planned a 15 mln dlr modernization of its Slater Steels Corp Fort Wayne specialty bar division in Indiana. It said the modernization would involve replacement of the existing bar mill with a high-speed, quick-change continuous mill. The new facility will lower labor and mill costs and enhance product quality and range, Slater said. Completion date of the new mill was undisclosed. Reuter 
TEXACO FILING ADDS UNCERTAINTY IN OIL MARKET

U.S. oil traders said Texaco Inc's filing for protection under the Chapter 11 bankruptcy code is adding uncertainty to an already skittish oil market, but opinions are divided on the impact to the market. "The filing is holding up wet barrel trading today," said one trader. "Everyone is talking about it, assessing their company's situations in relation to Texaco," he added. Some traders said companies that deal with Texaco are concerned about whether they will receive payment or supplies under the bankruptcy filing. However, others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry," one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. However, others were less worried. "The first paid will be the trading community and those connected with Texaco in the shipping industry," one New York trader said. "If Texaco doesn't get crude supplies it can't run its refineries, so its other assets would not be worth anything," he added. Texaco filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code yesterday after failing to reach a settlement with Pennzoil on an 11 billion dlrs court award for illegally interferring with Pennzoil's proposed purchase of Getty Oil Co. "There is some reluctance to trade with Texaco but no great change," said another trader, adding that traders are tending toward prudence in their dealings with the company. Traders are assessing whether to require cash prepayment or letters of credit, or to continue to trade as usual with Texaco on an open line basis, he said. Another trader, however, described today's activity as business as usual, adding that traders feel more secure because no liens can be put on Texaco's assets while it is in bankruptcy. Traders said there was no apparent effect of the Texaco filing on crude futures trading although they said the exchange might lower Texaco's position limit and require higher margins for Texaco's trades. New York Mercantile Exchange President Rosemary McFadden declined to comment on Texaco's futures trading, saying that is is proprietary information. McFadden did say, however, that as a matter of procedure, it is possible the exchange can lower allowable position limits or increase margin requirements for companies that are in financial trouble. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE SAYS SHULTZ TRIP MAY LEAD TO SUMMIT

President Reagan's chief of staff said a decision on a new U.S.-Soviet summit could emerge from Secretary of State George Shultz' Moscow talks with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze. Chief of Staff Howard Baker noted Reagan's invitation to Kremlin chief Mikhail Gorbachev to visit the United States, made at their first summit in Geneva in November, 1985, was still on the table. "I would not be surprised to see that subject discussed by the secretary of state and the Soviet Foreign Minister," Baker told reporters. "I would not be surprised to see some sort of decision result from those conversations." Reuter 
COLOMBIA'S TEXACO <TX> OPERATIONS NOT AFFECTED

The operations in Colombia of Texas Petroleum Co, a subsidiary of Texaco Inc, will not be affected by the legal dispute with the Pennzoil Co, its manager John Buttle said in a communique. The company yesterday filed protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy code. He said Texaco Inc did not operate outside the United States and operations of Texas Petroleum here are unaffected. Texas Petroleum Co, which posted a seven mln dlr profit in 1986 in Colombia, exploits in association with state-run oil company Ecopetrol some crude and natural gas wells. Reuter 
CME MEMBERS REJECT PETITION TO BAN DUAL TRADING

Members of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) rejected a membership petition to ban dual trading in Standard and Poor's 500 stock index futures and options on futures, the exchange said. Members voted 1,272 to 525 against a proposal to prohibit members from filling customer orders and trading for their own account, known as dual trading, in the S and P contracts. Instead of an outright ban on dual trading, the CME board adopted new rules, which include limitations on dual trading in stock index products, that will now be sent to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for approval. The new rules will limit the use of the top step in the S and P 500 futures and options pits, where the most active contract is traded, to brokers filling customer orders only. They may not transact business for their own account. The CME last week hired a new compliance officer and increased the staff of the market surveillance department to enhance security and regulation of the exchange. The rule changes also require brokers in S and P futures and options to manually record to the nearest minute the time of all personal trades in stock index products. Finally, the board voted to impose strict limits on trading within broker groups applicable to the entire exchange and redefined broker groups to more completely cover all forms of associations. A percentage limitation on the personal trading of a broker group member with other members of the group, and a percentage limitation on filling orders between members of the same broker group, will be set. John Sandner, CME board chairman, said in a statement the original petition would have adversely affected liquidity, discriminated against every broker and deprived all customers of their right to choose a broker who is a dual trader. REUTER 
HAITIAN CANE PLANTERS PROTEST SUGAR MILL CLOSURE

About 2,000 sugar cane planters marched to Port-au-Prince to protest against the closure of Haiti's largest sugar mill and second biggest employer. The Haitian American Sugar Company closed on Friday because of a huge surplus of unsold sugar. The firm said Haiti has been flooded with smuggled refined and unrefined sugar from the Dominican Republic and refined U.S. Sugar from Miami. The closure idled 3,500 factory workers and left 30,000 small cane planters with no outlet for their cane. The protesters blamed Finance Minister Lesly Delatour for the closure, saying his policies have hurt Haitian businesses. REUTER 
TAIWAN LIKELY TO BUY MORE U.S. SOYBEANS

A 50 pct cut in the import tariff for soybeans should help boost 1987 U.S. Soybean exports to Taiwan, a spokesman for the joint committee of soybean importers told Reuters. He said the cut to 3.5 from seven pct was approved by the cabinet yesterday and would go into effect within a week. The cut will encourage local importers to increase 1987 soybean imports to 1.9 mln tonnes from 1.74 mln last year, he said. The previous target for 1987 was 1.81 tonnes. Taiwan imports more than 90 pct of its soybeans from the U.S. And the rest from South America. The spokesman said the increase in imports from the U.S. Is in line with government efforts to reduce Taiwan's trade surplus with Washington, which rose to 3.61 billion U.S. Dlrs in the first quarter of 1987 from 2.78 billion a year ago. "The tariff cut is very helpful for American suppliers (who want) to boost their exports to Taiwan," Steve Chen, country director of the American Soybean Association, told Reuters. REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA TO CHANGE POLICIES TO AVERT TRADE WAR

South Korea has decided on major changes in its trade, investment and finance policies aimed at reducing the growth of its balance of payments surplus and avoiding a trade war with the United States, Deputy Prime Minister Kim Mahn-je said. Kim told reporters the excessively fast rise in exports could make South Korea too reliant on exports, increase nflation and produce trade friction. The policy shift, which means abandoning Seoul's goal of rapidly reducing its foreign debt, was worked out at a series of ministerial meetings. Kim, who is also Economic Planning Minister, said the current account surplus, previously expected to exceed eight billion dlrs this year, would be held at about five billion dlrs by increasing imports, accelerating market liberalisation and rationalising exports. He said Seoul would try to limit its current account surplus to around five billion dlrs a year for the next few years, although trade volume would continue to grow. "This will gradually reduce the ratio of the surplus to GNP (gross national product) from the current five pct level to three pct by 1991," he added. Koo Bon-yong, an aide to Kim, said South Korea's foreign debt had been expected to fall below 40 billion dlrs by the end of 1987, against the initial forecast of 41.8 billion, and 44.5 billion dlrs at end-1986. "But now (with the policy changes) the debt is expected to remain above 40 billion dlrs, although it could still be lower than the originally projected 41.8 billion dlrs," he said. The policy change was announced two days before the scheduled arrival of U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige for talks with Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae. South Korea is under U.S. Pressure to reduce its bilateral trade surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dlrs last year from 4.3 billion dlrs in 1985. Kim said the policy changes were also prompted by the swing in South Korea's current account to a surplus of 2.06 billion dlrs in the first quarter of 1987 from a deficit of 438 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period. First quarter 1987 exports rose 36 pct to 9.4 billion dlrs. The government would make foreign currency loans worth 2.5 billion dlrs to firms willing to import capital goods, raw materials and equipment, preferably from the U.S., He said. "The foreign currency-based loans, which carry interest at 1.5 points above LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), are considerable incentives given to increase imports," Koo said. Koo said the loans would be repayable in foreign currency. "It means they could become interest-free loans if the Korean currency continues to rise in value," he said. He said the South Korean won would be revalued against the dollar gradually, but added "We do not believe in rapid one-shot changes in the value of the won." The won, fixed at 839.70 to the dollar today, has risen six pct against the dollar since the beginning of 1986. REUTER 
PAPER SAYS U.S. TRADE DEFICIT CUT TO 13.65 BILLION

The Washington Post said the U.S. Commerce Department yesterday issued a new report showing that the U.S. Merchandise trade deficit was 13.65 billion dollars in February, a reduction of 1.4 billion dlrs from the 15.06 billion figure the department reported only two days earlier. The newspaper said: "News of the unexpectedly large 15 billion deficit helped batter the dollar's value on foreign exchange markets and boosted U.S. Interest rates. "However, the new report went largely unnoticed by financial markets since such a downward revision in the deficit is a monthly occurrence." The Washington Post said: "By law, the department must first publish what a top commerce official agreed are misleading trade figures and then wait 48 hours before putting out the more accurate ones." No one was immediately available at the Commerce Department for comment on the Washington Post report. REUTER 
BALDRIGE TO LAUNCH FAR EAST TRADE DRIVE

U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige leaves on Saturday on a 10-day trip to the Far East to help spur U.S. Trade and improve business relations with China, South Korea and the Philippines, U.S. Officials say. Baldrige will also stop in Hong Kong to meet British officials and local U.S. And Hong Kong businessmen. The U.S. Last year had major deficits with three of its Asian trading partners -- South Korea 7.1 billion dlrs, Hong Kong 6.4 billion and China 2.1 billion. The deficit with the Philippines was 800 mln dlrs. Baldrige will meet South Korean President Chun Doo-hwan and Trade Minister Rha Woong Bae on Monday to discuss opening South Korean markets to more U.S. Goods. Baldrige will be in Peking from April 21 to 24. He will meet Zheng Tuobin, minister for foreign economic relations and trade, attend a meeting of the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade and address a management and training organisation. However, U.S. Officials said a chief purpose of Baldrige's visit would be to discuss relaxed U.S. Rules for transferring modern technology to Chinese industries. In Hong Kong, Baldrige will hold meetings on April 27 with Governor David Wilson and Trade and Industry Secretary Eric Ho, as well as addressing the American Chamber of Commerce. U.S. Officials said Baldrige will meet Philippines President Corazon Aquino on April 28 to show continued U.S. Support for her government and to discuss steps it could take to improve the atmosphere for American investment. He will also will meet Finance Secretary Jaime Ongpin and Trade and Industry Secretary Jose Concepcion. REUTER 
BUDGET CHIEF MILLER WARNS FED ON INTEREST RATES

White House Budget chief James Miller said he was concerned that the Federal Reserve might "overreact" to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar by raising interest rates, a move he said could cause a recession next year. "Our greatest danger is overreaction," Miller told newspaper reporters yesterday. "I'm concerned about the Fed's overreaction. I'm concerned about what I see in recent data showing a substantial fall in the money supply." Edwin Dale, Miller's spokesman, said the remarks, published in the New York Times today, were accurate. Miller said he was concerned the Fed might overreact to signals of rising inflation by tightening credit -- a move he said could have "political consequences." The White House budget chief appeared to be referring to the effect an economic slowdown could have on the presidential and congressional elections next year. "My fear is that if we get into a recession we are in deep soup, and there is no question about it," he said. Miller said an economic slowdown could lead to lower tax revenues and a widening of the budget deficit. Miller's remarks reflected concern that the U.S. central bank might feel compelled to tighten credit as a means of bolstering the dollar. Both Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker recently have warned that further declines in the value of the U.S. dollar could jeopardize global growth prospects. U.S. officials have urged Japan and West Germany to stimulate economic growth in their countries -- a move that could boost U.S. exports and relieve trade protectionist pressures in the United States. Reuter 
FORD <F> DEVELOPING ALUMINUM CAR FRAME

Ford Motor Co said it is developing an aluminum space frame for its Probe V concept car using extruded stretch-formed aluminum that could lead to new techniques for building production cars in the future. It said the frame would reduce vehicle weight and cost while maintaining structural integrity and crashworthiness. The frame has fewer parts than conventional steel frames, Ford said. The company said the lighter weight would allow smaller powertrains and suspensions, further reducing weight and improving fuel economy. Ford said in addition, extrusion dies cost 1,000 to 12,000 dlrs each, compared with hundreds of thousands of dollars for steel stamping dies, and using extruded aluminum the number of welds in a car could be reduced to about 40 from over 2,000. Reuter 
U.S. COMMERCE TRADE REPORT OMITS FREIGHT COSTS

The Commerce Department said on that insurance and freight costs for imported goods of 1.45 billion dlrs were included in the February trade deficit of 15.1 billion dlrs reported on Tuesday. The department is required by law to wait 48 hours after the initial trade report to issue a second report on a "customs value" basis, which eliminates the freight and insurance charges from the cost of imports. Private-sector economists emphasized that the Commerce Department was not revising down the deficit by 1.45 billion dlrs but simply presenting the figures on a different basis. A report in the Washington Post caused a stir in the foreign exchanges today because it gave the impression, dealers said, that the underlying trade deficit for February had been revised downward. The Commerce department would like to have the law changed to permit it to report both sets of figures simultaneously. "My feeling is the second one is a better report but there's legislation that requires us to delay it two days," said Robert Ortner, Commerce undersecretary for economic affairs. "But this has been going on for a long time and no one pays any attention to the second figure." The 15.1 billion dlr February trade deficit compared with a revised January deficit of 12.3 billion dlrs. The law requiring a 48-hour delay in publishing the monthly trade figure excluding freight and insurance was passed in 1979. Reportedly the feeling was the first figure, which includes customs, freight and insurance, allowed a better comparison with other countries that reported their trade balances on the same basis. The second figure, which would always be lower by deducting freight and insurance, presents the deficit in a more favorable light for the Reagan administration. Ortner said he would like to see the law changed to eliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two figures. "We're considering it," he said, "It's one of those dinosaur laws and I think it's time has come." The second figure, which would always be lower by deducting freight and insurance, presents the deficit in a more favorable light for the Reagan administration. Ortner said he would like to see the law changed to eliminate the 48-hour delay in reporting the two figures. "We're considering it," he said, "It's one of those dinosaur laws and I think its time has come." Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE SAYS U.S. MONETARY POLICY CORRECT

The White House, distancing itself from remarks by the administration's budget chief, said the Federal Reserve's current course of monetary policy was appropriate. "The administration feels that the current course of monetary policy is appropriate," White House spokesman Marlin Fitwater said. Fitzwater said the administration did not endorse remarks by White House budget chief James Miller, who said he was concerned the Federal Reserve might overreact to the decline in the value of the U.S. dollar by raising interest rates. More 
BANKS TRY TO CALM MANILA'S FURY OVER DEBT DEAL

Senior U.S. bankers are seeking to calm the furore in the Philippines caused by the terms of Argentina's new financing package, but a source in New York close to the Manila government said finance minister Jaime Ongpin is in no mood for compromise. Ongpin is angry because the banks granted Argentina an interest rate spread of 13/16 pct, the same as Mexico won, just weeks after telling the Philippines that it must accept 7/8 pct because the Mexican margin could never be repeated. Bankers acknowledged the political sensitivity of the interest spread but urged Ongpin to examine the Argentine package in its entirety. Argentina, for instance, is offering banks a 3/8 pct participation fee if they sign up for the deal within 30 days (declining to 1/8 pct if banks commit within 60 days), which boosts the all-in interest rate it is paying on the package. "You can make the case that the deal is not 13/16 pct," one banker said. Another, referring to the Philippine debt negotiators, said "The only reason they'd have to come back to New York is political, not economic." Ongpin has said as much himself, estimating that an extra 1/16 percentage point would cost just 5.1 mln dlrs a year. But the source close to the Philippines said Ongpin's anger goes beyond the dollars. He said the minister feels personally betrayed by bankers who insisted Mexico's 13/16 pct was a rock-bottom spread that could not be duplicated. Top U.S. Treasury and Federal Reserve officials had said the same. The source said Ongpin is unlikely to come to the U.S. to press his case and was expecting the Philippines' bank advisory committee, headed by Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co, to negotiate the spread reduction by telex. Ongpin has not said the Philippines will unilaterally start paying interest at the lower rate but has made it clear to the committee in a telex that he is not prepared to pay more than Mexico and Argentina, the source said. "The Philippines really means business on this. I don't think there's much room for compromise," he said. Manufacturers Hanover declined to comment on the issue. The Philippines last month won an agreement to reschedule 10.3 billion dlrs of debt over 17 years at an interest rate of 7/8 pct, whereas some 30 billion dlrs in old Argentine debt will be stretched out over 19 years with a spread of 13/16 pct. Bankers said they were forced to break their word because political circumstances had changed in the past few weeks. In particular, they said it had become clear that Argentina was serious about its threat to suspend interest payments unless it got a good deal. Fearing that an Argentine moratorium would stiffen the resolve of its neighbour Brazil, which has already suspended payments, the banks, at the urging of the Reagan Administration, bowed to Argentina's demands. Some U.S. bankers argued that, regardless of politics, the rich menu of options in the Argentine package makes it attractive enough to justify a 13/16 pct rescheduling rate. "When they (the Philippines) see the whole package, they may realize that this is not a Mexican deal," one banker said of the Argentine agreement. The Argentine pact contains several features that were not in the Mexican accord such as "exit bonds," an option to provide new money via bearer bonds, a trade facility, onlending provisions and a debt-equity conversion scheme. Moreover, Argentina is requesting only 1.95 billion dlrs in new loans, compared with Mexico's 7.7 billion, and is paying 7/8 pct for most of the money instead of the 13/16 pct charged to Mexico. This line of argument cuts no ice with the Filipinos, who note drily that they asked for no new money at all. "The banks reacted on the level of politics to Argentina and try to justify it in terms of economics, and now they're going to have problems with both the Philippines and Venezuela," said the source close to the Manila government. Because of the Easter holidays bankers have not yet got an official reaction from Venezuela, which is also paying 7/8 pct on its 20.2 billion dlr rescheduling. But they acknowledged that Caracas, which was also told that the Mexico spread was inviolate, is quite likely to demand a lower spread. Bankers were more sanguine in the case of Chile. Because it is under fire for its human-rights record, the government of General Augusto Pinochet is unlikely to attract attention to itself by seeking to renegotiate its recent debt package, which carries interest of one pct, bankers said. They hope that, once tempers cool, the Philippines will also accept that reopening an agreement that took 4-1/2 tough months to negotiate will be more trouble than it is worth. Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 1.08 BILLION DLRS

Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 1.08 billion dlrs to 276.37 billion dlrs in the week ended April 8, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 1.1 billion dlrs to 278.67 billion dlrs. Reuter 
FINLAND FILES FOR 550 MLN DLR DEBT OFFERING

The Republic of Finland filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a shelf offering of up to 550 mln dlrs of debt securities, including notes and bonds, and/or warrants to buy debt securities on terms to be determined at the time of the sale. The offering is in addition to 50 mln dlrs of debt securities already registered with the SEC but unsold. Proceeds from the sale will be used to finance capital investment and the promotion of productive investments and exports designed to strengthen the country's balance of payments, the government said. No underwriter was named. Reuter 
BALDRIGE PRAISES NEW SOUTH KOREAN TRADE POLICIES

U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige praised South Korea's new surplus-cutting trade policies but warned of possible protectionist retaliation if Seoul's market liberalisation efforts falter or fail. In a press conference after talks with South Korean leaders, Baldrige called the government's announced intention to regulate exports and boost imports "a very, very important step, the right direction for the Korean government to take." The government adopted the new policies last week in the hope of heading off a trade war with the U.S. Baldrige said the policies "showed an understanding of the fact that this country cannot go on indefinitely growing by exports alone." "There has to be enough of a change so that domestic growth begins to take more of the load," he said. South Korea had a 7.2 billion dlr trade surplus with Washington in 1986, thanks largely to booming sales of cars and consumer electronic goods. It racked up another 1.4 billion dlrs in surplus in the first quarter of this year. Baldrige said Seoul's package of measures was "broad enough and comprehensive enough so that ... Actions can be taken for liberalising imports (and) increasing the domestic economy, if the government is willing to follow through." "We will be watching the implementation of this new policy direction very closely," he said. "Because of the protectionism growing in the U.S., We see a real problem if Korea does not keep on the same path ... Of steadily increasing liberalisation.... If that should falter or fail or turn backward, I'm as sure as I'm standing here that we'd see protectionist movement in the U.S." Baldrige said he and South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae spent much time discussing trade problems in specific product categories. These included service industries, which he said were still too much of a closed sector in South Korea, and computers and cars. Baldrige said he urged speedy action on removing the tariffs and taxes on imported U.S. Cars which can make them sell for up to three times their American prices. "We want to stop that. With this sort of thing, there's going to be trouble somewhere down the road," he said. "We are just pointing this out." Asked if Seoul's measures could succeed without a revaluation of the won, which Washington has been urging for months, Baldrige declined to comment. "We don't have any target for any particular currency, but we do feel that currencies around the world, if we are going to be successful as a world economy, have to reflect the fundamentals of the various economies involved," he said. Baldrige said he had agreed to Rha's proposal for cooperation on forming U.S.-South Korean joint ventures in third countries. The American government would be pleased to encourage U.S. Firms to get involved, he added. Commenting on President Reagan's decision to increase tariffs on certain Japanese imports to the U.S., Baldrige said Washington's trade problems with Japan were not comparable to its difficulties with South Korea. "I think the attitude in Korea is both reasonable and fair," he said. "It's a firm attitude. We don't get anything for nothing or just by asking for it. "But our negotiations are friendly and reasonable and they usually end up with something good happening at the end that both countries live up to." REUTER 
ADB'S FUJIOKA SAYS STALEMATE WITH TAIWAN CONTINUES

The Asian Development Bank (ADB) will not change its decision to admit China as a member despite protests from founder member Taiwan, bank president Masao Fujioka said. China's admission in March 1986 and the decision of the bank to change Taiwan's name to 'Taipei, China' caused a Taiwanese boycott of the ADB's last annual meeting in Manila. Fujioka told Reuters in an interview that Taiwan had been invited to the bank's 20th annual meeting starting April 27 in Osaka, "but the situation remains the same." "The bank's board agreed to change Taiwan's name to 'Taipei, China'," Fujioka said. "We have tried to maintain our channels of communication through the Taiwanese director, but we are not negotiating with a view to changing our agreement with China," he said. ADB figures show China has the largest shareholding among the bank's developing members, with 7.2 pct of its equity. Fujioka said a stalemate also continued with Vietnam, which complained at last year's meeting that for several years the ADB had unilaterally stopped advancing loans. An ADB spokesman said the last loan of 40.67 mln dlrs was made to the then Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam) in 1974. Vietnam said last year that only 23 mln dlrs of that loan were disbursed. The bank's 1986 annual report said of 11 loans approved for Vietnam, eight had been closed, two were suspended and only one was under administration at the end of 1986. Cumulative disbursements to Vietnam at the end of 1986 totalled 25.3 mln dlrs, or 99.5 pct of the total amount of effective loans, the report said. "The situation (in Vietnam) is not conducive to bank operations," Fujioka said. "Vietnam continues to be a member. We would like to help it, but new loans seem to be difficult." "It's not a question of political instability, the environment has to be right for banking operations." He said with the first loans made to India in 1986, and lending operations in China scheduled to start this year, the ADB had now acquired a "truly Asian" character. Although China's finance ministry had gained five years of experience in borrowing from the World Bank, ADB loans would be routed through the country's central bank, Fujioka said. "It's been a very slow start," Fujioka said. "We identified three projects (in China). One disappeared and we now have only two left." He said the ADB might lend China between 200 and 300 mln dlrs in 1987 for an investment bank and an energy project. He did not foresee an expansion of lending to India. The ADB in 1986 approved two loans to India totalling 250 mln dlrs. "There is a sort of agreement that our loans to India should be modest and that the World Bank should be the major lender," Fujioka said. He did not give details. Fujioka said the ADB saw its lending to the private sector serving as a catalyst. The bank's new private sector division in 1986 approved three loans totalling 11.46 mln dlrs without government guarantees. In addition, the ADB approved four equity investment projects totalling 8.15 mln dlrs. This raised to 15.18 mln the cumulative approvals since equity financing commenced in 1983. But Fujioka said the ADB should not compete with private banks. "We have a narrow path to walk," he said. He said he was happy with the decision of the bank's donor countries to increase the ADB's fund for soft loans. The fourth replenishment of the soft-loan window, the Asian Development Fund , brought it to 3.6 billion dlrs, from 3.2 billion, Fujioka said. In particular the United States has maintained its 16 pct share," said the ADB chief. He said there had been disagreements with the U.S., Which holds 14.9 pct of the bank's equity, over lending policies. The U.S. Complained in 1986 the ADB was granting bad loans in its impatience to hit lending targets. "I suspect there is some arm-twisting," he said. "I find some developed countries are more interested in the procurement side instead of the development side." Fujioka said he said he foresaw increased sectoral lending and a gradual dilution of the ADB's project-tied lending. Fujioka said project lending was expected to drop to 63 pct of total loans in 1987, from 66.5 pct in 1986 and 77.5 pct in 1985. He said sectoral lending was projected to rise to 20 pct in 1987, from 12.8 pct in 1986 and 7.5 pct in 1985. He said the bank would try to reduce some of its liquid assets by repaying borrowings carrying high interest rates. "On the other hand we must maintain our presence in major financial markets," he said. "Why should we not take advantage of historically low interest rates?" REUTER 
SOUTH KOREA CUTS EXPORT FINANCE LOANS

South Korea has cut loans to exporting companies to help reduce the growing trade surplus with the United States and the European Community, finance ministry officials said. They said two billion dlrs worth of foreign currency loans would be available to firms willing to import industrial facilities, and 500 mln dlrs for those importing raw and intermediary materials and parts. Exporters, who previously received 645 won (0.769 dlrs) for each dollar's worth of overseas orders, will now get only 575 won (0.686 dlrs), they said. The officials said the government also stopped new bank loans given to aid the installation of export-oriented facilities by the nation's 30 largest business groups. A finance ministry official told Reuters the measures were part of the South Korean government's package to curb the increase in the nation's trade surpluses with major trading partners. South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.2 billion dlrs with the United States in 1986, against 4.1 billion in 1985. It had a surplus of 1.09 billion dlrs last year with the EC, against 188.8 mln dlrs in 1985. REUTER 
BALDRIGE PRAISES NEW SOUTH KOREAN TRADE POLICIES

U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige praised South Korea's new surplus-cutting trade policies but warned of possible protectionist retaliation if Seoul's market liberalisation efforts falter or fail. In a press conference after talks with South Korean leaders, Baldrige called the government's announced intention to regulate exports and boost imports "a very, very important step, the right direction for the Korean government to take." The government adopted the new policies last week in the hope of heading off a trade war with the U.S. Baldrige said the policies "showed an understanding of the fact that this country cannot go on indefinitely growing by exports alone." "There has to be enough of a change so that domestic growth begins to take more of the load," he said. South Korea had a 7.2 billion dlr trade surplus with Washington in 1986, thanks largely to booming sales of cars and consumer electronic goods. It racked up another 1.4 billion dlrs in surplus in the first quarter of this year. Baldrige said Seoul's package of measures was "broad enough and comprehensive enough so that ... Actions can be taken for liberalising imports (and) increasing the domestic economy, if the government is willing to follow through." "We will be watching the implementation of this new policy direction very closely," he said. "Because of the protectionism growing in the U.S., We see a real problem if Korea does not keep on the same path ... Of steadily increasing liberalisation.... If that should falter or fail or turn backward, I'm as sure as I'm standing here that we'd see protectionist movement in the U.S." Baldrige said he and South Korean Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae spent much time discussing trade problems in specific product categories. These included service industries, which he said were still too much of a closed sector in South Korea, and computers and cars. Baldrige said he urged speedy action on removing the tariffs and taxes on imported U.S. Cars which can make them sell for up to three times their American prices. "We want to stop that. With this sort of thing, there's going to be trouble somewhere down the road," he said. "We are just pointing this out." Asked if Seoul's measures could succeed without a revaluation of the won, which Washington has been urging for months, Baldrige declined to comment. "We don't have any target for any particular currency, but we do feel that currencies around the world, if we are going to be successful as a world economy, have to reflect the fundamentals of the various economies involved," he said. Baldrige said he had agreed to Rha's proposal for cooperation on forming U.S.-South Korean joint ventures in third countries. The American government would be pleased to encourage U.S. Firms to get involved, he added. Commenting on President Reagan's decision to increase tariffs on certain Japanese imports to the U.S., Baldrige said Washington's trade problems with Japan were not comparable to its difficulties with South Korea. "I think the attitude in Korea is both reasonable and fair," he said. "It's a firm attitude. We don't get anything for nothing or just by asking for it. "But our negotiations are friendly and reasonable and they usually end up with something good happening at the end that both countries live up to." REUTER 
TAIWAN PROPOSES TO INVEST ONE BILLION DLRS IN U.S.

Taiwan's Economic Ministry has approved an ambitious proposal calling for a one billion U.S. Dollar investment by private and public companies in the United States over the next five years, ministry officials said. John Ni, director of the Ministry's Industrial Development and Investment Centre (IDIC), said under the IDIC proposal, Taiwanese firms would be encouraged to set up factories and invest in property and securities markets in the U.S.. Taiwan's 1986 investment in the U.S. Totalled 46 mln U.S. Dlrs, official statistics show. The investment was mainly in the electronics, food, service and trading sectors. The new proposal, approved by Economic Minister Lee Ta-hai yesterday, calls for investment of 80 mln U.S. Dlrs in 1987, 120 mln in 1988, 160 mln in 1989, 240 mln in 1990 and 400 mln in 1991, he told Reuters. It will be discussed soon by officials of the Finance Ministry, the Central Bank and the Council for Economic Planning and Development before being submitted to the cabinet for final approval, he said. "This is the first ambitious proposal with government initiatives to encourage our businessmen to invest in America," Lee said. He said government incentives to prospective Taiwanese investors would include bank loans and a five-year income tax holiday. Applications for investing in the U.S. Would also be simplified. A ministry spokesman told reporters the proposed investment would be helpful in creating job opportunities for Americans and avoiding U.S. Import quotas or restrictions on Taiwanese products. The plan will also help reduce Taiwan's trade surplus with the U.S., Which rose to a record 13.6 billion U.S. Dlrs in 1986, up from 10.2 billion in 1985, the spokesman said. The rising surplus has enabled Taiwan to accumulate some 54 billion U.S. Dlrs in foreign exchange reserves. Economists described the proposal as a significant step by the government to head off U.S. Protectionism. "Time is running out for us. Taiwan has lagged far behind Japan and South Korea in encouraging its businessmen to invest abroad," said Hou Chia-chi, economics professor at Soochow University. REUTER 
HODEL SAYS ODDS ON FINDING NEW ALASKA OIL 1-IN-5

U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel said there was a one in five chance that new drilling in Alaska would find oil. "But if it's there, there's a very good chance that it would be a giant field," Hodel said on ABC's "Good Morning America." "So it is the best geological prospect that they (geologists) have talked to me about since I've been involved in this process," he said. Hodel announced yesterday that he would urge Congress to open up 1.5 mln acres of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil exploration despite fears of environmental damage threatening the Caribou herd in the region. He said today the exploration was needed in an effort to prevent future U.S. oil shortages and said oil drilling in the large Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska proved oil could be drilled without severely damaging the environment. He said the Caribou herd at Prudhoe Bay had tripled, contrary to concerns before the drilling operation that it would endanger the herd. Reuter 
BALDRIGE ASSURES CHINA ON TRADE AND TECHNOLOGY

U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige said U.S. Sales of high technology to China are rising despite Peking's complaints they are being restricted. He told reporters at the airport on arriving here for talks that technology transfers to China had increased every year and would continue to do so. The official Peking Review yesterday accused the United States of delaying approval on high-technology sales to China. Last year, Washington approved only 60 pct of the exports China applied for, the magazine said. "The COCOM-listed kind of export controls are just a fraction of the technology that the U.S. Is transferring (to China) by other means, such as joint ventures," Baldrige said. COCOM is the Western coordinating committee formed after World War Two to limit the export of advanced technology to Communist nations. Baldrige said he was sure U.S. Firms could compete against firms from other countries for high technology sales. He added that protectionism would hurt the economies of trading nations and said the Reagan Administration would fight protectionist legislation in the U.S. Congress. Baldrige and China's Foreign Trade Minister Zheng Tuobin will act as chairmen of the fifth session of a commission on commerce and trade that will review bilateral trade relations. A U.S. Official said other issues to be raised during Baldrige's talks are trade deficits, which each country says it has with the other, and the problems facing U.S. Companies investing in China. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 275,000 to 293,000 head versus 284,000 week ago and 320,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 122,000 to 128,000 head versus 128,000 week ago and 138,000 a year ago. Reuter 
FED OPPOSES CREDIT CARD INTEREST RATE CEILINGS

The Federal Reserve Board opposed pending legislation to establish ceilings on interest charged by credit card companies. "The Board does not believe it would be appropriate to impose a federal ceiling on credit card rates," Fed governor Martha Seger told a Senate Banking Subcommittee. "Among other things a Federal ceiling could have undesirable side effects in the form of reduced credit availability and could lead to changes in non-rate credit card terms," she testified. Reuter 
FED'S ANGELL SAYS BOARD IN HARMONY ON RATES

Federal Reserve Board Governor Wayne Angell said the Reagan appointed majority on the board was not at odds with Chairman Paul Volcker on whether interest rates should rise to support the dollar. "I would anticipate very little difference between the chairman's position on price-level stability - and on the view of the dollar in foreign exchange markets - and my own," Angell said in an interview with the New York Times. "And I would also see very little difference in (Governor) Manley Johnson's position and my own," he added. The newspaper said Angell was speaking in response to inquiries concerning a report by syndicated columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak that Volcker was ready to raise rates to defend the dollar but that he was being thwarted by the four Reagan appointed members on the board. Angell told the newspaper that there was no evidence of disagreement on the board and that "anyone who should suggest" there is one "might be reaching pretty far." Reuter 
FED OPPOSES CREDIT CARD INTEREST RATE CEILINGS

The Federal Reserve Board opposed pending legislation to establish ceilings on interest charged by credit card companies. "The Board does not believe it would be appropriate to impose a federal ceiling on credit card rates," Fed governor Martha Seger told a Senate Banking Subcommittee. "Among other things a Federal ceiling could have undesirable side effects in the form of reduced credit availability and could lead to changes in non-rate credit card terms," she testified. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> RAISES HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS SAID

Oil traders in the New York area said Exxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. subsidiary increased the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in New York harbor by 0.25 ct a gallon, effective today. The 0.25 cent price hike brings Exxon's contract barge price to 48.75 cts a gallon, traders said. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES IN MONEY MARKET

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the U.S. government securities market to add temporary reserves, economists said. They said it is likely to supply the reserves indirectly by arranging two to 2.5 billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements. There is less chance of a direct reserve add instead via System repurchase agreements. Federal funds, which averaged 6.21 pct yesterday, opened at 6-3/8 pct and traded between there and 6-7/16 pct. Reuter 
STATE OF N.J. IN 43 MLN DLR PROGRAM STOCK SALE

The State of New Jersey said that it sold 23 stocks in a program trade worth 43 mln dlrs this morning. Roland Machold, director of the Division of Investment for the state of New Jersey, said, "the sale was part of our ongoing divestment program." Under N.J. state law enacted in August 1985, the state must divest all securities, stocks and bonds, of companies that do business in, or with South Africa by August 1988, Machold said. He said "in order to be fully divested by August 1988, we will probably have to sell an average every week of between 50 mln and 75 mln dlrs of stock." The stocks sold in today's program sale include Abbott Laboratories <ABT>, Allied Signal Inc <ALD>, CitiCorp <CCI>, Ford Motor Co <F>, General Motors <GM>, Gillette Co <GS>, H.J. Heinz <HNZ>, IBM <IBM>, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing <MMM>, Mobil <MOB>, Monsanto Co <MTC>, NCR Corp <NCR>, Pepsico Inc <PEP>, Pfeizer <PFE>, Union Camp <UCC>, USX <X>, Westinghouse Electric <WX>, Weyerhaeuser Co <WY>, American International Group <AIG>, CBS <CBS>, Coca-Cola <KO>, Merck <MRK> and Upjohn <UPJ>. Machold said that one brokerage house handled today's sale but seven houses bid on the deal. He would not disclose the brokerage house that handled the sale. "The total value of the sales to date," Machold said, "are about three billion dlrs in book value and about four billion dlrs in market value." He said that because of the difficulty of defining companies that do business with South Africa, it is difficult to determine exactly how much future sales will be worth. Machold estimated the book value of future sales to August 1988 will be in the range of 1.2 billion dlrs to 5.2 billion dlrs. Reuter 
DU PONT'S <DD> CONOCO FINDS OIL OFFSHORE CONGO

Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc said the Viodo Marine Number one exploratory well offshore the People's Republic of the Congo produced up to 1,135 barrels of 26.55 degree gravity oil daily in tests through a 3/4 inch choke. The company said the well, in 202 feet of water about 10 miles west of Pointe-Noire, Congo, was drilled to a depth of 11,527 feet and tested between 7,204 feet and 11,300 feet. The well is located on the Marine II block, a 260,000 acre offshore permit acquired in May 1985, where Conoco is operator with a 42.5 pct interest. <Orange-Nassau Marine C.V.> owns 7.5 pct and Hydro Congo, the state oil company, 50 pct. Reuter 
API OIL INVENTORY REPORT TO BE ISSUED TONIGHT

The American Petroleum Institute, API, said its weekly U.S. petroleum inventory report will be issued tonight, despite many company closures on Friday of last week for the Easter holiday. The API report is usually released around 1700 EDT on Tuesday nights. The Energy Information Administration said it also expects its weekly oil statistic report to be released as usual, on Wednesday night at about 1700 EDT. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA TWO-DAY REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange two-day System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-7/16 pct when the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system. Reuter 
CAPITAL ASSOCIATES <CAII.O> TO TRADE ON NASDAQ

Capital Associates Inc said its common stock will be included in NASDAQ's national market system, starting today. Capital Associates is an equipment leasing and financial service company with headquarters in Colorado Springs, Colo. Reuter 
MINT REVIEWS OFFERS ON 3,701,000 LBS COPPER

The U.S. Mint received 17 offers from seven firms at prices ranging from 0.66845-0.6840 dlrs per lb for payment by standard check and 0.66695-0.68 dlrs per lb for wire transfer payment in a review of offers on 3,701,000 lbs of electrolytic copper it is seeking to purchase. Philipp Brothers, N.Y., led with the lowest offers of 0.66695 for wire transfer payment and 0.66845 dlrs per lb to be paid by check, followed by Cerro Sales Corp, N.Y., with 0.6684 dlrs per lb on one mln lbs for wire payment, and 0.6713 dlrs per lb on one mln lbs for standard payment. Firms, in submitting offers, elect to be paid by standard check or wire transfer, with awards based on whichever of the two methods is more cost advantageous at that time. Cerro Sales also offered prices for wire payment of 0.6689 dlrs per lb on one mln lbs and 0.6693 dlrs per lb on 1,701,000 lbs. Cerro's standard payment offers included 0.6719 dlrs per lb on one mln lbs and 0.6723 dlrs per lb on 1,701,000 lbs. Cargill Metals, Minneapolis, offered 0.67025 dlrs per lb for wire payment and 0.67275 dlrs per lb for standard payment, while Elders Raw Materials, Darien, Ct., offered 0.6718 dlrs per lb for wire payment and 0.6735 dlrs per lb for standard payment on increments of 950,000 lbs each. Other offers for wire transfer payment include 0.6759 dlrs per lb on 380,000 lbs, submitted by Deak International, N.Y., 0.6789 dlrs per lb on the entire quantity by Diversified Metals Corp, St. Louis, and 0.68 dlrs per lb by Gerald Metals, Stamford, Ct. Other standard payment offers include 0.6819 dlrs per lb on 950,000 lbs by Diversified Metals, and 0.6840 dlrs per lb on the entire quantity by Gerald Metals. The Mint said the copper is for delivery the week of May 11 to Olin Corp, East Alton, Ill. The offers have a minimum acceptance period of three calendar days, it said. Reuter 
SENATE PREPARING FOR NEW U.S. BUDGET BATTLE

Congress returned from its Easter recess ready for the annual Spring budget battle that promises to be a partisan dispute. The budget fight pitting Democrats against President Reagan and Republicans is expected to get underway this week in the Senate late this week and last at least another week. It is taking on new prominence because of current trade woes. That is because the budget problems and its associated huge deficits are said to be at the root of related international trade friction currently worrying financiers. As the dollar slides downward on global markets and stock exchanges gyrate wildly, the trade dispute involving the United States and Japan once again is spreading fears of a major trade war between the two trading giants for the first time since World War II. Ostensibly that dispute is over U.S. charges that Japan is refusing to open its markets to semi-conductor chips and the resulting U.S. tariffs doubling prices of Japanese televisions and small computers. Behind the elements of a brewing trade war which neither side wants, is the dilemma of the U.S. budget and its deficit. Some analysts say the financial markets may be waking up to the economic realities that the huge debt cannot continue to grow without repercussions. A large portion of the U.S. debt has been financed by foreigners from their accumulated trade surpluses. But if they withdraw this support the result can only be further problems, including higher interest rates for Americans. In a nutshell, the U.S. budget process has now moved to the showdown stages in Congress. Reagan's own trillion dollar spending budget for the government year 1988, starting Oct. 1, was trounced badly in the House on April 9. The Senate takes up a plan similar to one that passed the House, calling for slashing the deficit from its estimated 171 billion dlr level next year to about 134 billion dlrs, through defense and domestic spending cuts and about 18.5 billion dlrs in new, unspecified, taxes. As the Senate prepares to take up its own budget plan, majority Democrats predict there will be passage of a bill, only after a protracted partisan battle. In the House, not one Republican voted for the budget, which passed by 230 to 192. In the Senate, none of Reagan's Republicans voted for the budget as it passed out of the Senate Budget Committee for full Senate consideration. A key Senate Budget Committee source told Reuters he believes this very unusual unanimous opposition was by design among congressional Republicans, perhaps with the tacit approval of the White House. "Republicans want Democrats to take the heat for any tax hikes and defense cuts," he said. In the coming weeks, the source said, Democrats will press for a bipartisan budget and seek a negotiated budget with Reagan -- who already is opposed to the idea. But "it is not clear how the Republicans will act," he added. He said Republicans may propose their own plan for lower taxes and more defense spending, which they did not offer after Reagan's budget was clobbered in an early vote in the House. When Reagan entered the White House in 1981, he inherited what was labelled a huge deficit from Jimmy Carter that wound up to be nearly 79 billion dlrs that year. Despite Reagan's promise to balance the budget by 1983, critics note that his administration's record of accumulated debt is estimated over one trillion dlrs, or 1,100 billion dlrs. That is money the government must borrow, and pay back, and many analysts say it is what kept the dollar high and caused the worst U.S. trade deficit ever. Last year the United States bought goods from the world worth 169.8 billion dlrs more than what it sold, including purchases of 58.6 billion dlrs in Japanese goods. While Congress is trying to attack the trade deficit on one front through a get-tough trade bill promising retaliatory measures unless all markets are opened, its success so far against the budget deficit has been marked by limited progress. Congress, which controls the pursestrings, has put the deficit on a downward path from its record high of 220.7 billion dlrs accumulated in fiscal 1986, which ended Sept. 30. Because of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings balanced budget law enacted in late 1985, there has been pressure on Congress to do more than talk about deficits. That law, named after Republican Senators Phil Gramm of Texas, Warren Rudman of New Hampshire and Democrat Ernest Hollings of South Carolina, calls for a balanced budget by 1991 through a series of set deficit targets that Congress must meet. The law has been followed, even though an enforcement mechanism to mandate automatic across-the-board cuts if Congress misses its goal was stricken by the Supreme Court. The legislators have followed the targets -- on paper. But in reality, the goal has actually been missed. For example, Congress last year approved legislation to meet the 1987 target of a 144 billion dlr deficit. But even after approving the numbers, the deficit for 1987 is estimated at over 170 billion dlrs -- far off the target. This year the target is 108 billion dlrs and that goal is expected to be missed widely. Reuter 
API SAID STATISTICS TO BE RELEASED TONIGHT

The American Petroleum Institute said it plans to release its weekly report on U.S. oil inventories tonight, even though last Friday was a holiday. Reuter 
FED DATA PROVIDE NEW EVIDENCE OF TIGHTER POLICY

U.S. banking data released today are too distorted to draw sweeping conclusions about monetary policy, but they do support the market's assumption that the Federal Reserve has started to tighten its grip on credit, economists said. "It's clear that the Fed has firmed somewhat. Discount window borrowings, net free reserves, the Fed funds rate average and the pattern of reserve additions are all consistent with a modest tightening," said Dana Johnson of First Chicago Corp. Johnson, and several other economists, now estimate that the Fed funds rate should trade between 6-1/4 and 6-3/8 pct. Discount window borrowings in the week to Wednesday were 935 mln dlrs a day, producing a daily average for the two-week statement period of 689 mln dlrs, the highest since the week of December 31, 1986, and up from 393 mln dlrs previously. Moreover, banks were forced to borrow a huge 5.2 billion dlrs from the Fed on Wednesday - the highest daily total this year - even though unexpectedly low Treasury balances at the Fed that day left banks with over two billion dlrs more in reserves than the Fed had anticipated. However, economists said it is almost certain that the Fed is aiming for much lower discount window borrowings than witnessed this week. They pointed to two factors that may have forced banks to scramble for reserves at the end of the week. First, economists now expect M-1 money supply for the week ended April 29 to rise by a staggering 15 to 20 billion dlrs, partly reflecting the parking in checking accounts of the proceeds from stock market sales and mutual fund redemptions to pay annual income taxes. As banks' checking-account liabilities rise, so do the reserves that they are required to hold on deposit at the Fed. Required reserves did indeed rise sharply by 2.5 billion dlrs a day in the two weeks ended Wednesday, but economists said the Fed may not have believed in the magnitude of the projected M-1 surge until late in the week and so started to add reserves too late. Second, an apparent shortage of Treasury bills apparently left Wall Street dealers with too little collateral with which to enagage in repurchase agreements with the Fed, economists said. Thus, although there were 10.3 billion dlrs of repos outstanding on Wednesday night, the Fed may have wanted to add even more reserves but was prevented from doing so. "It's not at all inconceivable that the Fed didn't add as much as they wanted to because of the shortage of collateral," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Economics Inc. McCarthy estimated that the Fed is now targetting discount-window borrowings of about 400 mln dlrs a day, equivalent to a Fed funds rate of around 6-3/8 pct. After citing the reasons why the Fed probably has not tightened credit to the degree suggested by the data, economists said the fact that the Fed delayed arranging overnight injections of reserves until the last day of the statement period was a good sign of a more restrictive policy. Jeffrey Leeds of Chemical Bank had not been convinced that the Fed was tightening policy. But after reviewing today's figures, he said, "It's fair to say that the Fed may be moving toward a slightly less accommodative reserve posture." Leeds expects Fed funds to trade between 6-1/4 and 6-3/8 pct and said the Fed is unlikely to raise the discount rate unless the dollar's fall gathers pace. Johnson at First Chicago agreed, citing political opposition in Washington to a dollar-defense package at a time when Congress sees further dollar depreciation as the key to reducing the U.S. trade surplus with Japan. Reuter 
TAIWAN TO TENDER UP TO 87,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE

The joint committee of Taiwan's maize importers will tender on April 29 for two cargoes of U.S. Maize, totalling between 54,000 and 87,000 tonnes for delivery between May 21 and June 25, a committee spokesman told Reuters. Taiwan has set a calendar 1987 import target of 2.92 mln tonnes compared with imports of 3.05 mln in 1986. About 80 pct of the imports are expected to come from the U.S. And the rest from South Africa, the spokesman said. REUTER 
TAIWAN WINS REVISED TEXTILE ACCORD FROM U.S.

Taiwan and the U.S. Have revised and extended their textile export agreement after negotiations in Washington this week, a spokesman for the Taiwan Textile Federation said. Charles Chen told Reuters the original three year accord has been extended by one year to the end of 1989. The U.S. Has agreed to raise the limit on annual growth of Taiwan's textile and apparel exports to one pct from 0.5 pct for calendar 1989, he said. "The new accord is more fair and gives breathing space to our textile makers (so they can) diversify their exports to other nations," he added. Chen said the revised agreement puts Taiwan on similar textile exporting terms to Hong Kong and South Korea. But despite the changes, Taiwanese firms have lost orders to rivals in Hong Kong and South Korea because of the strong Taiwan dollar, he said. The Taiwan currency has risen 17 pct against the U.S. Dollar since September 1985 while the Korean won rose by some six pct and the Hong Kong dollar was stable. Taiwan's textile exports to the U.S. Amounted to 2.8 billion U.S. Dlrs last year out of total exports to the U.S. Of 7.8 billion. Textile exports are expected to remain the same this year, Chen said. REUTER 
VALERO PARTNERS <VLP> WINS TAKE OR PAY CASE

Valero Natural Gas Partners LP, 49 pct owned by Valero Energy Corp <VLO>, said a jury in Sutton County, Texas, district court has found that it had no liability for 21 mln dlrs in take-or-pay claims that had been alleged by Lively Exploration Co. Take-or-pay claims involve allegations that natural gas supply contracts require volume of natural gas to be paid for even if not taken. As a result of declining markets, most pipelines, like Valero, do not have customers for all the gas that could be delivered by producers, such as Lively. Valero said it used as its primary defense the Texas Railroad Commission's rules that require intrastate pipelines to take ratably from their producers and in times of surplus take gas in accordance with priority categories set by the commission. Reuter 
CHINA TEXTILE EXPORTS RECORD HIGH IN 1ST QUARTER

China's textile exports in the first quarter reached a record 2.2 billion dlrs, an increase of 49 pct on the year-earlier period, the People's Daily said. Its overseas edition gave no country breakdown. The U.S. Is one of China's largest markets for textiles. U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige told a press conference that Chinese textile and apparel exports to the U.S. In 1986 rose 65 pct in value from the 1985 level, a rate of growth that "is not sustainable nor equitable to our other major foreign suppliers." China is now the United States' largest textile supplier, he said. Baldrige declined to say what would be an acceptable growth rate for Chinese textile exports. Negotiations on the next China-U.S. Textile agreement are due to begin in May, he said. "There clearly has to be a limit," he said. "Our economy can only absorb so much textiles. It is in both of our interests to reach a satisfactory conclusion. Without an agreement, we would have a chaotic situation." Reuter 
MOODY'S RATES ADB'S SENIOR SAMURAI BONDS AAA

Moody's Investors Service Inc said it assigned a top-flight Aaa rating to African Development Bank's 15 billion yen senior Samurai bond due 2002 issued in Tokyo. The rating reflects the support provided by the callable capital of non-borrowing member countries, which include the U.S., Japan, Canada, West Germany and several other European nations. Moody's said that African Development Bank's sound lending, borrowing and liquidity policies also support the top rating grade. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 280,000 to 287,000 head versus 257,000 week ago and 311,000 a year ago. Saturday's hog slaughter is guesstimated at about 40,000 to 55,000 head. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 121,000 to 126,000 head versus 128,000 week ago and 136,000 a year ago. Saturday's cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 19,000 to 35,000 head. Reuter 
U.S. PERSONAL INCOME ROSE 0.2 PCT IN MARCH

U.S. personal income rose 0.2 pct, or 5.4 billion dlrs, in March to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3,603.9 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said. The increase followed an upwardly revised 1.3 pct rise in February. Earlier, the department said income rose 0.9 pct in February. Personal consumption expenditures rose 0.3 pct, or 8.9 billion dlrs, to 2,882.6 billion dlrs in March after rising a revised 2.4 pct in February instead of the previously reported 1.7 pct rise, the department said. Last month's income gain matched a 0.2 pct rise in November and was the lowest since June when income was unchanged. The spending rise was the weakest since January's 2.0 pct decline. The department said the slowdown in income was mainly due to a drop in subsidies to farmers. Excluding that factor, personal income rose 0.4 pct in March and 0.7 pct in February. Wages and salaries rose 7.4 billion dlrs last month after gaining 16.6 billion dlrs in February, while manufacturing payrolls declined 1.3 billion dlrs after rising 2.5 billion dlrs in February. Reuter 
CONSOLIDATED GAS <CNG>HIGH BIDDER ON GULF TRACTS

Consolidated Natural Gas Co said its CNG Producing Co subsidiary, bidding alone or with partners, was the apparent high bidder on six of seven tracts it south at Wednesday's sale of federal oil and gas leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The company said it share of the six bids totaled 6.2 mln dlrs. Its 100 pct interest bids were on three offshore tracts -- West Cameron 209, 302 and 303. Consolidated has a 50 pct interest in the bid for Eugene Island 375 and Ship Shoal 128 and 129. The remaining interest in 139 is held by Sun Energy Partners <SLP>, which is 96.3 pct owned by Sun Co Inc <SUN>. <Union Texas Petroleum Corp>, which is 49.7 pct owned by Allied-Signal Inc <ALD>, is Consolidated's partner on the other two tracts. Reuter 
BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP <BS> INCREASES PRICES

Bethlehem Steel Corp said it was raising the prices by 30 dlrs per ton on section extras on certain wide planned structural shapes. The increase will affect seven wide planned section groups and will increase the price to 500 dlrs per ton from 470 dlrs per ton, effective May 3, the company said. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> NET DROPS ON LOWER OIL, GAS PRICES

Exxon Corp reported a 37 pct drop in first quarter profits to 1.07 billion dlrs citing lower oil and gas prices. The company said profits in the lastest quarter included a 26 mln drl restructuring gain from divestment of certain gold operations overseas, while last year's first quarter profit of 1.71 billion dlrs included the initial charge of 235 mln dlrs for its 1986 corporate reorganization. First quarter revenues were down 13 pct to 19.44 billion dlrs. One time items aside, Exxon said, its first quarter results were stronger than 1986's final quarter which included several large asset sales and positive inventory adjustments. It said earnings per share declined 36 pct reflecting the company's continued purchases of its own common for the treasury. During the first quarter, 5,085,000 shares were acquired at a cost of 416 mln dlrs compared with 3,132,000 in 1986's fourth quarter. Commenting on the first quarter, Exxon said crude oil prices strengthened moderately within the quarter and were higher than a year ago at the end of the quarter. However, average crude prices for the quarter were below the year ago period, leading to lower earnings for exploration and production operations, Exxon said. Also contributing to reduced earnings were lower natural gas prices, primarily overseas, representing contract adjustments representing contract adjustments tied to falling product prices in 1986, the company said. During the first quarter, the company said, intense competition in both domestic and international markets served to depress margins for refined products. Exxon said the lower product margins resulted in significantly reduced earnings for refining and marketing operations, contrasting sharply with the unusually strong margins prevailing in the first qtr of 1986. It said savings from efforts to control costs and improve efficiency helped soften the negative impact of lower oil and natural gas prices. Exxon said earnings from chemicals and power generation activities showed consideratble improvement, remaining strong throughout the period. Reuter 
FED SPOKESMAN SAYS NO NEWS CONFERENCE PLANNED

The Federal Reserve Board has no news conference or announcement planned for today, a Fed spokesman said, dispelling market rumors that a statement was pending. "No such event is scheduled or planned," said spokesman Bob Moore. Rumors of a pending Fed announcement or news conference circulated in financial markets, following a government report that consumer prices advanced by 0.4 pct in March, suggesting a rapid rise of inflation. Reuter 
PHILLIPS <P> CITES LOWER OIL PRICES IN DECLINE

Phillips Petroleum Co cited lower oil and gas prices in its first quarter loss of 32 mln dlrs or 16 cts a shares compared with net income of 96 mln dlrs or 39 cts a share in the year-ago period. It also said there was a decline in crude oil production due to its recently completed asset sales program. Phillips also said it expects crude prices will continue to be soft in the second and third quarters, but will improve toward the end of the year. Phillips also said that foreign currency transaction losses in the first quarter were 10 mln dlrs compared with a gain of 46 mln dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986 and a loss of one mln dlrs in the first quarter of 1986. Reuter 
VENEZUELA RE-ESTABLISHES POSTED PRODUCT PRICES

Petroleos de Venezuela, PDVSA, the state owned oil company, has re-established posted prices for some light products and heavy fuel oil, industry sources in New York said. The return to posted prices is a sign that the market is returning to a more stable and orderly condition after a year of volatile price movements in which Venezuela ceased posting prices and moved to negotiating prices with companies. "We are in more stable market now and PDVSA has probably decided to return to postings for some products," one industry trade source said. But there was no talk of Venezuela posting prices for crude oil which were also dropped in 1986. Posted prices were dropped in the first quarter of 1986 when prices for crude oil and products tumbled in response to OPEC's market share strategy and netback arrangements. PDVSA has set out posted prices for several groups of light products including gasoline, naphtha, jet kerosene and distillates effective April 15 as follows. Unleaded gasoline was posted at 19.74 dlrs a barrel (47 cts a gallon) with leaded gasoline at 20.16 dlrs a barrel (48 cts a gallon). Light naphtha was posted at 17.85 dlrs a barrel (42.5 cts a gallon), full range naphtha at 19.11 dlrs a barrel (45.50 cts a gallon), and heavy naphtha at 19.53 cts a gallon (46.5 cts a gallon). Jet kerosene was posted at 18.90 dlrs a barrel, also effective April 15, or (45 cts a gallon) with dual purpose kerosene at 18.06 dlrs a barrel (43 cts a gallon). Distillates of 0.2 pct sulphur and 0.3 pct sulphur grades were posted at 18.48 dlrs a barrel (44 cts a gallon), each with 0.5 pct sulphur 18.08 dlrs a barrel (43.05 cts a gallon). LPG postings, also effective from April 15, were made as follows, propane 175 dlrs a tonne (33.33 cts a gallon), butane 210 dlrs a tonne (46.26 cts a gallon) and isobutane at 240 dlrs a tonne. Heavy fuel products were given a posted price effective April 10 and ranged from 0.3 pct sulphur at 19.35 dlrs a barrel to 17.21 dlrs a barrel for 2.8 pct sulphur. Heavy fuel postings are also referred to as minimum export prices. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> RAISES HEATING OIL PRICE, TRADERS SAID

Oil traders in the New York area said Exxon Corp's Exxon U.S.A. subsidiary raised the price it charges contract barge customers for heating oil in the New York harbor by 0.50 cent a gallon, effective today. They said the 0.50 cent a gallon increase brings Exxon's contract barge price to 49.25 cts a gallon. Reuter 
NOBLE <NBL> SUBMITS HIGH BID FOR TRACT

Noble Affiliates Inc said it submitted the high bid for six tracts at the Central Gulf of Mexico sale on April 22. It said its exploration and production subsidiary, Samedan Oil Corp, participated in the high bid for the following tracts, West Cameron 296, East Cameron 296, Vermilion 266, Ship Shoal 350, Main Pass 90 and Main Pass 100. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS MOROCCO 125 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it will provide Morocco a 125 mln dlr loan for a project intended to improve, expand and modernize its telecommunications network. The Bank said the project expects to satisfy about 80 pct of the demand for telephone service and the 100 pct of the demand for telex service by 1994. The total cost of the project is 647.5 mln dlrs, with the Office National des Postes et Telecommunications du Maroc providing 359.6 mln dlrs and bilateral sources expected to provide 189.9 mln dlrs, the Bank said. REUTER 
U.S. MINT ANNOUNCES COPPER/NICKEL AWARDS

The U.S. Mint said it awarded contracts to Philipp Brothers, N.Y., and Sidney Danziger, a New York metals merchant, to procure 3,701,000 lbs of electrolytic copper and 629,000 lbs electrolytic cut nickel cathodes or briquettes. The Mint said Philipp Brothers will supply the entire 3,701,000 lbs of copper at a cost of 0.66845 dlrs per lb. Sidney Danziger will furnish 338,000 lbs of the nickel at 1.8344 dlrs per lb, while Phibro will provide 291,000 lbs at 1.8369 dlrs per lb, the Mint said. Reuter 
GERMAN GROWTH WILL NOT CUT U.S. DEFICIT -BANGEMANN

Economics Minister Martin Bangemann, who flies to Washington this weekend for high level talks, said boosting West German economic growth would not have any significant effect on the high U.S. Current account deficit. In a paper prepared ahead of his trip, Bangemann said Bonn's trading partners had been asking whether West German growth was slowing and whether the Federal Republic should not in the future pursue more strongly expansionary policies. In the paper Bangemann wrote, "It is not possible to reduce the U.S. Current account deficit by any signficant amount just through more stimulation of the West German economy." One U.S. Administration policy maker said in Washington this week that the United States government wanted West Germany and Japan to reduce their interest rates even further to stimulate their economies. Bangemann said it was clear the high mark, as well as uncertainty about further currency developments, was making companies here cautious about production plans and investments. While West Germany did not seek exchange rates which unilaterally favoured its exports, it favoured more stability and realistic rates, which corresponded to "fundamentals." He welcomed the February "Louvre Agreement" of six industrial nations to stabilise currencies and said, "(We) expect all parties to hold by the accords struck there." West Germany had fulfilled its pledge of boosting planned tax cuts, he noted. Despite calls for lower interest rates, Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger has hinted that central bank policy may even have to be tightened. He wrote in a newspaper article published yesterday that the Bundesbank's current accommodative stance could not continue in the long term. During his trip to Washington, which runs from April 26 to 29, Bangemann will meet Secretary of State George Shultz, trade envoy Clayton Yeutter, World Bank President Barber Conable, IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus and Paul Volcker, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. REUTER 
AMOCO <AN> TO SUPPLY LEADED GAS TO FARMERS

Amoco Oil Co said it will continue to sell leaded gasoline to farmers in certain portions of the midwest as long as there is sufficient demand for the product. "It appears that the agricultural community will need limited amounts of leaded gasoline for certain types of equipment until an acceptable alternative is found," the company said. Amoco previously announced it would sell all lead-free gasoline to motorists at its service stations. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE SAYS MARCH CPI "NO CAUSE FOR ALARM"

The White House said last month's 0.4 per cent in increase in the CPI, the third sharp rise in three months and one that brought the annual inflation rate to 6.2 pct so far this year, was no cause for alarm. "While this is something to watch, it's not something to be alarmed about," said spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. He said the three month increase in inflation was due almost entirely to higher energy prices. Fitzwater said once an OPEC price hike is "passed through the system," the nation should see a slowing of the inflation rate to the administration's 3.8 pct 1987 forecast. REUTER 
U.S. PRODUCTIVITY REPORT RESCHEDULED TO MAY 4

The Labor Department said it rescheduled the release of the first-quarter nonfarm productivity report to May 4 at 1000 EDT (1400 GMT) from April 27. The delay was necessary because the Commerce Department moved back release of national income and product data used by the Labor Department to compute productivity. Reuter 
SHELL OIL FIRST QUARTER NET DROPS 61 PCT 

Shell Oil Co said first quarter net income dropped 61 pct over the prior-year quarter on revenues that slipped four pct. "Lower prices for crude oil and natural gas and reduced margins in our oil and chemical products businesses were the major factor for the earings decline," John F. Bookout, president, said in a statement. For the quarter, the company, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <SC>, earned 108 mln dlrs on sales of 4.50 billion dlrs, compared with 276 mln dlrs on sales of 4.67 billion dlrs a year ago. Bookout said the company is cautiously optimistic oil markets will be less volatile in coming months than they were in 1986. "In coming months, oil products results should benefit from seasonally higher gasoline volumes," he said. "However, so long as U.S. product inventories remain high, it may be difficult to fully recover from the depressed margins of recent periods," he added. Bookout said the company's chemical products earnings should benefit from strong performances in chemical sales volumes and continued high industry operating rates. Shell said its oil and gas exploration and product segment earned 110 mln dlrs for the quarter vs 91 mln dlrs in 1986. It said earnings were hurt by lower selling prices for crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. Domestic crude oil prices averaged 14.24 dlrs a barrel, compared with 19.28 dlrs last year, while natural gas prices dropped 24 pct, Shell said. Shell said earnings at its oil products segment plunged by 53 mln dlrs, to eight mln dlrs. It said lower refined product selling prices were only partially offset by reduced raw material costs. The company said earnings from chemical products also fell sharply, to 40 mln dlrs from 72 mln dlrs, due mainly to lower margins, especially in commodity chemicals, coupled with its pullout from the agricultural chemicals business in October 1986. Shell said capital and exploratory outlays totaled 500 mln dlrs for the quarter, off from 645 mln dlrs. Reuter 
ASCS SEEKS 12.5 MLN POUNDS VEG OIL FOR EXPORT

The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) is seeking 12.5 mln pounds of vegetable oil for export June 6-20 and June 21/July 5, an ASCS official said. Offers must be received at the Kansas City Commodity Office by 1430 CDT May 4, and successful offerors will be notified May 5. reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER - G-7 OPPOSE FURTHER DLR DROP

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the Group of Seven countries, in seeking to foster stability in exchange markets, believe a further decline in the value of the dollar would be counterproductive. In answer to questions by a business group, Baker said that for one thing further reductions could make it economically difficult for the surplus countries to grow, thereby making it difficult for them to purchase overseas goods. In addition, Baker said he was opposed to the U.S. selling a yen denominated bond arguing that such a move might send the wrong signal to markets. Reuter 
SOVIET CORN CARGO REJECTED, RELOADING AT CHICAGO

A cargo of U.S. corn for the Soviet Union was rejected and forced to be unloaded at a Chicago export elevator earlier this week after it failed to make grade, with the British vessel Broompark now being reloaded, an elevator spokesman said. The first attempt to load the ship failed when the percentage of broken kernels proved to be higher than contract specifications, he said. The Soviets traditionally refuse to take sub-grade grain at a price discount, as is the practice with many other importing nations, he added. The official estimated the reloading of the vessel with about 700,000 tonnes of corn may be completed by Tuesday, April 28. Reuter 
U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY SURGE EXPECTED NEXT WEEK

The U.S. M-1 money supply number to be announced next Thursday is expected to show one of the largest one-week increases in history, analysts said. The average forecast of economists polled by Reuters calls for a 17.7 billion dlr M-1 jump for the week ended April 20. Estimates of the increase range from five billion dlrs to 26.3 billion dlrs. "The M-1 surge will be very temporary. About two thirds of the increase is likely to be washed out in the following week," said Kim Rupert, an economist at Money Market Services Inc. Rupert said a huge increase in M-1 for the April 20 week is implied by very strong deposit survey data and by an unexpectedly sharp gain in required reserves in Federal Reserve data released Thursday. Those numbers, covering the two-week bank statement period that ended on April 22, show a 2.5 billion dlr jump in basic required reserves. Economists said this largely reflected the parking in checking accounts of the proceeds from stock market sales and mutual fund redemptions to pay annual income taxes. Fed seasonal adjustments do not adequately compensate for these and other special factors. Analysts noted that income tax refunds from the Treasury also appear to be coming earlier than usual. They also are not adequately compensated for by the Fed's seasonal adjustment factors to the money supply. The Federal Reserve is no longer targeting M-1 because the link between M-1 and economic growth has largely been severed by financial market innovation and deregulation. As such, there is likely to be little financial market reaction to the huge M-1 increase that is expected to be announced next week. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY COSTS ROSE IN MARCH BY 1.0 PCT

Consumer energy costs rose 1.0 pct in March following a moderate rise last month, the Labor Department said. The March increase in the overall energy costs, including petroleum, coal and natural gas, followed a 3.0 pct rise in January and a 1.9 pct rise in February, it said. However, energy prices were 5.6 pct below year-ago levels. The department's Consumer Price Index showed that the cost of gasoline rose in March by 2.3 pct, after a 4.2 pct rise in February. Gasoline prices were nonetheless 5.9 pct below their levels as of March 1986. Also, the category including fuel oil, coal and bottled gas rose in March by 1.4 pct, putting it 9.0 pct under the year-ago figure. The index also showed that natural gas and electricity were unchanged last month, but down 3.1 pct from the March 1986 figure, the department said. The index has been updated to reflect 1982-84 consumption patterns. Previously, the index was based on 1972-73 patterns. Reuter 
INTERSTATE (I) CHIEF DOUBTFUL ON BRAZIL DEBT

First Interstate Bank Corp Chairman Joseph Pinola said he was not optimistic about the prospects for a resolution of the Brazilian debt situation during the current year. "I am not as optimistic personally on a resolution as some others are," Pinola told reporters after the company's annual meeting. He said it did not seem likely that the Brazilian government has the will to take the steps necessary to resolve their domestic economic difficulties. In February, Brazil suspended interest payment on about 68 bln dlrs of its commercial debt. Many U.S. banks have placed their Brazilian loans on non-accrual status as a result of this action, but they also expressed confidence that Brazil and U.S. lenders could resolve the situation before the end of the year. Reuter 
FMC <FMC> TO SELL STAKE IN GOLD PROPERTIES

FMC Corp said it will consider selling to the public a minority interest in a subsidiary that will hold the company's North American gold and precious metals properties and operations. FMC said its board also authorized the transfer of the metals properties to the newly formed unit. An unnamed investment advisor has been retained to help in evaluating alternatives on the properties, which consist of a wholly owned gold mine at Paradise Peak, Nev., a 30 pct interest in a gold mine at Jerritt Canyon, Nev., and a 28 pct interest in a gold mine near Austin, Nev. Reuter 
CATTLE ON FEED REPORT CALLED NEGATIVE

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders' immediate comments on the 13-state USDA quarterly cattle on feed report were negative. Traders said that placements on feed and total on-feed numbers were at the high end of expectations and will likely weigh on futures tomorrow. Reuter 
USDA ANNOUNCES EXPORT BONUS WHEAT TO ALGERIA

The U.S. Agriculture Department announced it accepted three bids from two exporters for export bonuses to cover sales of 54,000 tonnes of durum wheat to Algeria. USDA said the bonuses awarded were 42.45 dlrs per tonne, to be paid in the form of commodities from CCC inventory. The bonus awards were made to Cam USA Inc (36,000 tonnes) and Corprostate Inc (18,000 tonnes). Shipment is scheduled for June 1-30, 1987. An additional 64,000 tonnes of durum wheat are still available to Algeria under the export enhancement program. Reuter 
TREASURY BALANCES AT FED FELL ON APRIL 23

Treasury balances at the Federal Reserve fell on April 23 to 6.211 billion dlrs from 9.431 billion dlrs on the previous business day, the Treasury said in its latest budget statement. Balances in tax and loan note accounts rose to 25.154 billion dlrs from 24.953 billion dlrs on the same respective days. The Treasury's operating cash balance totaled 31.366 billion dlrs on April 23 compared with 34.385 billion dlrs on April 22. Reuter 
U.S. GASOLINE SURPLUS SEEN OVER NEAR TERM

Unless U.S. refiners reduce the amount of gasoline they now produce, the oil industry will enter the coming summer driving season with the largest surplus of motor fuel since 1984, oil analysts and traders said. "They key question is how much gasoline refiners produce in the coming weeks," said Larry Goldstein of Petroleum Industry Research Inc. "If refiners cut output and demand turns upward, gasoline stocks could begin to draw, and the surplus could potentially turn around in four to eight weeks," said Goldstein. The American Petroleum Institute said U.S. gasoline stocks for the week ended April 17 are 37.6 mln barrels above last year's levels, and analysts said they don't believe the expected one to two pct rise in demand will take care of the surplus before the start of the summer driving season, which begins Memorial Day weekend. The API said the last time stocks were this high was in 1984, when there was a 27 mln barrel excess. Oil traders said that the surplus held throughout the summer of 1984, depressing prices for the motor fuel. Over the past several weeks, analysts said they expected refiners to reduce production because there was no profit in continued production of gasoline due to the surplus. However, refineries continued to operate at higher levels, they said. U.S. refineries have been running at about 78.8 pct of capacity during March and April this year, compared to 77.5 at this time last year, API statistics show. Because of the current excess in stocks, one planner for a major oil company said he believed that most companies are contemplating cutting refinery throughput over the near term. He said some refiners appear to be selling less aggressively in order to have product on hand to meet the expected rise in demand this summer. Goldstein said that other factors, such as higher speed limits, the gasoline lead phasedown, and possible new restrictions on gasoline vapor pressure could tighten the supply situation this summer. However, a planner at another major oil company said that although large inventories are dampening the price outlook for gasoline this season, he does not expect refiners to cut output soon. That oil company planner said high crude oil runs reduce the refiner's average costs, making the incremental barrel of gasoline cheaper to produce. Most analysts expect a slight upturn this summer over the summer of 1986. Bo Poates, an analyst at the Energy Futures Group Inc said he foresees demand up about one pct in the second and third quarters of 1987. Chase Econometrics' Scott Jones sees gasoline demand rising 1.9 to 2.2 pct for the year, due mainly to continued low prices. Reuter 
USDA REPORTS SEEN NEGATIVE TO LIVESTOCK FUTURES

Commission house livestock analysts agreed with Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders in calling today's USDA 13-state quarterly cattle on feed report and cold storage report for pork bellies negative. June live cattle futures are called 0.20 to 0.50 cent lower on Monday and back months of cattle are expected 0.50 to 1.00 cent lower. Pork bellies are expected 0.50 to 1.00 cent or more lower, the analysts said. Disappointment was voiced over the placement and total on feed figures in the cattle report. Both the quarterly section and monthly 7-state part showed the amount placed on feed and on feed numbers at the high end of expectations. The other disappearance figure of only three pct above a year ago in the 7-state section was also vieved as negative. Most of the early guesses predicted a much larger number for death loss following the two winter snow storms that struck the west in late March, they said. However, weight groupings were friendly to the nearby futures and should prompt some bull spreading on the decline, they said. William Arndt from Dean Witter noted that the 900 to 1,100 lb steers and 700 to 900 lb heifers were at 94 pct of a year ago and should lend some support to June futures. However, 700 to 900 lb steers at 119 pct will weigh on August, he said. "The big reduction in cattle weighing over 900 lbs should be friendly to the market for at least the next 30 to 60 days," AGE Clearing analyst Jerry Abbenhaus said. Movement of bellies into frozen storage was at the high end of expectations and should weigh on futures tomorrow, especially as futures prices ended weak today, they said. Other parts of the cold storage report were also viewed as negative to livestock and meat futures. "We have a lot of poultry in storage. Even though we have smaller pork supplies, the decline is not enough to offset the increases in poultry," Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levitt said. Also, there is more beef in storage than last year and this was achieved on smaller production. Reuter 
USDA SEEKING COMMENTS ON 1988 FARM PROGRAMS

The U.S. Agriculture Department is seeking comments on common provisions of the 1988 wheat, feedgrains, cotton and rice programs. It said many program provisions are common to all the commodity programs and decisions made in regard to one will likely apply to other program crops. It asked for specific comments on the percentage reduction for acreage limitation requirements under the wheat program, the loan and purchase level, and whether a marketing loan, the inventory reduction program and related provisions should be implemented. The percentage acreage reduction of between 20 and 30 pct must be announced no later than June 1, 1987 for wheat, it said. Reuter 
USDA ADJUSTS LOUISIANA GULF PRICE DIFFERENTIALS

The U.S. Agriculture Department has narrowed by three cents the price differential between the Louisiana Gulf price of corn and posted country prices pegged to the gulf price, USDA officials said. The change, effective April 27, means posted county prices will be three cents higher in the region, Robert Sindt, assistant deputy administrator of USDA's Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, said. Trade sources said USDA adjusted the differentials because gulf prices had shown some weakness in recent days compared with the rest of the country. Sindt said Louisiana Gulf corn price differentials that had been between four and eight cents would, effective Monday, range between one and five cents. Trade sources said cash bids at the Louisiana Gulf have been between three and 4.5 cents weaker than in the rest of the country in recent days, and that USDA's move would strengthen the front end of the corn market. Reuter 
REAGAN WARNS CONGRESS ON PROTECTIONISM

President Reagan warned the U.S. Congress in his weekly radio address against passing what he called dangerous, protectionist trade legislation that would tie his hands in trade negotiations with Japan and other countries. Reagan, who will hold talks with Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone here this week, said he would lift tariffs imposed last week against some Japanese products as soon as Tokyo complied with a U.S.-Japanese pact on semiconductors. U.S. Officials gave the same message to former Japanese Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe in meetings in Washington last week. In his weekly radio address on Saturday, Reagan said he would tell Nakasone: "We want to continue to work cooperatively on trade problems and want very much to lift these trade restrictions as soon as evidence permits. Reagan said the 100 pct tariffs he imposed on some 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods was a special case of trade retaliation and did not signal a shift in what he called his staunch anti-protectionist policies. "In imposing these tariffs we were just trying to deal with a particular problem, not begin a trade war," he said. But Congress is ready to approve tough trade legislation to try to turn round the record U.S. Trade deficit, which has cost millions of U.S. Jobs and closed thousands of factories. A vote on a trade bill sponsored by Congressman Richard Gephardt is expected to come during Nakasone"s visit. It would penalise nations with large trade surpluses and which are alleged to use unfair trade practices. Reagan warned Congress that such action would undercut his ability to negotiate on trade issues with Nakasone and others. "With my meeting with Prime Minister Nakasone and the Venice economic summit coming up, it"s terribly important not to restrict a president"s options in such trade dealings with foreign governments," he said. "Unfortunately, some in the Congress are trying to do exactly that," he said. Reagan said he would keep the American people "informed on this dangerous legislation because it"s just another form of protectionism and I may need your help to stop it." REUTER 
U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY CANCELS TRIP TO AUSTRALIA

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker has cancelled a trip to Australia because of pressing business at home, including the visit this week by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone, a Treasury spokesman said. The spokesman, who asked not to be identified, said, "I would not draw any conclusion from the cancellation ... I would just say it's the press of business." He said Nakasone's visit was "part of the press of business" but denied the cancellation was linked to the current turmoil in the financial markets. REUTER 
EGYPT SEEKS ARAB FUNDS TO BUY ITS MILITARY DEBTS

Egypt is trying to persuade Arab states and banks to buy its military debts to the United States and other Western countries so it can repay them on better terms, an Egyptian official said. "We want the Arabs to buy the debt and reschedule it at a more reasonable interest rate of up to seven pct," the official, who asked not to be named, told Reuters. Egypt owes the U.S. 4.5 billion dlrs in military debt and has failed to persuade Washington to reduce interest rates on it averaging about 14 pct. Eqypt also owes France an undisclosed amount, estimated by Arab diplomats at over two billion dlrs, and has not serviced the debt for over a year. Other military debts are owed to Spain, West Germany and Britain. The official said negotiations on the possibility of buying the debt have started, with approaches made to Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, but no firm decisions have been reached. The official also said the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Egypt have agreed on certain economic reforms in return for emergency funds. An accord with the IMF would open the way for Cairo to reschedule its 40 billion dlr debt. The official said the IMF agreement requires Egypt to raise energy prices to international levels, unify its multi-tiered foreign exchange system and raise interest rates. "Egypt will seek loans from various countries immediately after the agreement with the IMF is signed," he said. "If an Arab country buys part of the military debt or gives us guarantees, it will encourage banks to step in," he added. REUTER 
ALGERIA SIGNS MAJOR LNG DEAL WITH U.S. GROUP

Algeria's national petroleum agency Sonatrach and the U.S. Panhandle-Trunkline <PEL.N> group signed a 20-year accord for the delivery of liquefied natural gas (LNG), the official APS news agency said. Deliveries will start next winter and rise over three years to reach 4.5 billion cubic metres annually, with 60 pct of the gas carried in Algerian ships to a terminal at Lake Charles, La., APS said. APS said the pricing formula will "preserve the purchasing power of LNG and the interests of Sonatrach, and take into account ... The world (and) the American market." The agreement follows months of negotiations between Panhandle Eastern Petroleum Corp and Sonatrach over the new LNG contract. The talks followed an accord in July 1986 which resolved a long-standing dispute between Sonatrach and Panhandle subsidiary <Trunkline Gas Co> after the U.S. Group unilaterally suspended purchases of Algerian LNG. REUTER 
BALDRIGE SAYS FURTHER DOLLAR FALL NOT PRODUCTIVE

The U.S. Secretary of Commerce Malcolm Baldrige said a further decline of the dollar would not be productive. He told reporters here that Treasury Secretary James Baker "feels, and I feel the same way, that a further dollar fall would be counterproductive." Baldrige also said governments cannot determine long-term currency exchange rates and that currencies would eventually reflect underlying economic fundamentals. The U.S. Commerce Secretary is in Hong Kong after stops in Peking and Seoul on an Asian trade tour. REUTER 
U.S. CONSIDERING OIL INDUSTRY TAX INCENTIVES

The Reagan Administration is considering tax incentives to boost oil output and restore 100,000 jobs, U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said. A tax credit for new exploration would be part of a package to bring 1,000 idle drilling rigs back into operation and raise domestic production by one mln barrels a day, he said. The tax status of exploration might also be changed, Herrington told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress. He said the oil industry was experiencing difficult times internationally and had been devastated in the United States. Consumer demand and a significant decline in domestic production has resulted in a rise in oil imports of one mln barrels a day in over the last 16 months, Herrington said. "Steps must be taken...To reverse the downturn in our domestic energy industry and to safeguard and increase our energy security," he said. The administration is committed to improving marketplace conditions and incentives to spur exploration and development. "This commitment includes rejecting quick fix solutions, like an oil import fee, which are bad for the United States and bad for the world," he added. REUTER 
REAGAN WARNS CONGRESS ON PROTECTIONISM

President Reagan warned the U.S. Congress in his weekly radio address against passing what he called dangerous, protectionist trade legislation that would tie his hands in trade negotiations with Japan and other countries. Reagan, who will hold talks with Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone here this week, said he would lift tariffs imposed last week against some Japanese products as soon as Tokyo complied with a U.S.-Japanese pact on semiconductors. U.S. officials gave the same message to former Japanese Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe in talks here last week. In his weekly radio address on Saturday, Reagan said he would tell Nakasone: "We want to continue to work cooperatively on trade problems and want very much to lift these trade restrictions as soon as evidence permits. Reagan said the 100 pct tariffs he imposed on some 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese goods was a special case of trade retaliation and did not signal a shift in what he called his staunch anti-protectionist policies. "In imposing these tariffs we were just trying to deal with a particular problem, not begin a trade war," he said. Reuter 
INTEGRATED RESOURCES SETS UP BRANCHES IN HONG KONG

U.S.-based insurance and investment broker <Integrated Resources Inc> has set up two subsidiaries in Hong Kong, a company statement said. <Integrated Resources Insurance and Investment Services Ltd> will focus on insurance marketing and <Integrated Resources (HK) Ltd> on stock broking. The statement gave no financial details for the local firms. REUTER 
THAILAND TO SEEK CLARIFICATION ON U.S. RICE PRICES

Thailand will this week seek clarification from the U.S. About its decision to freeze rice export prices from January to early April, Commerce Minister Montri Pongpanich said. Montri told reporters he will seek a meeting with U.S. Ambassador William Brown to determine why the U.S. Failed to set its weekly rice prices in accordance with rising world prices during the period. He said the U.S. Has followed a policy of weakening world rice prices by announcing highly subsidised export prices lower than those quoted by Thai traders. Thai officials said weekly rice prices as announced by the U.S. Agriculture Department were unchanged for 11 weeks up to April 8. Thailand, a major rice exporter, has criticised the U.S. Farm Act which provides heavy subsidies to U.S. Exporters enabling them to compete with Thai exporters. Thai officials said average export prices of Thai rice fell 19 pct last year and another 5.8 pct during the first quarter this year. The Board of Trade said Thailand exported 1.23 mln tonnes in January/March, down from 1.29 mln a year ago. It said the export decline was partly due to the reluctance of Thai traders to accept all foreign orders as world prices did not rise in line with firming domestic prices. The board said, however, that Thailand may export more rice later this year, especially to Africa, the Middle East and Asia, due to lower production in many drought affected African countries and to expected small exportable surpluses in Burma and Pakistan. It said Thai rice exports to nine major African buyers rose to 351,889 tonnes during the first quarter from 93,038 a year earlier. REUTER 
SOVIETS TO PRESENT TREATY ON MISSILES - SOURCES

The Soviet Union will present a draft treaty today calling for elimination of all U.S.-Soviet medium-range missiles in Europe, an official source in the Soviet arms negotiating team told Reuters. The draft treaty will be handed over to the American team negotiating on medium-range missiles during talks at the U.S. Diplomatic mission in Geneva this afternoon, the source said. The United States presented its draft treaty, which would also scrap the so-called "Euromissiles," during a previous round of negotiations in early March. REUTER 
BALLADUR URGES ADHERENCE TO G-7 CURRENCY ACCORDS

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the Group of Seven major industrial nations, G-7, can achieve stable currency values by adhering to accords reached this year in Paris and Washington. Balladur, asked at a news conference if coordinated market intervention by central banks was sufficient to halt the dollar's recent slide, said "each country has to fulfill commitments" outlined in the G-7 accords. Earlier this month in Washington, finance ministers of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France, Italy, Britain and Canada reaffirmed an earlier Paris accord to arrest the dollar's fall. Balladur said the current nervousness in foreign exchange markets can be partly attributed to "some operators in the market only watching short term economic indicators. You have to keep a cool head," he said, declining to elaborate further. In an earlier speech before the Milan Chamber of Commerce, the minister said European countries have to seek "a better consensus of economic and monetary policies." On the European Monetary System, he said, "The persistent vulnerability of the foreign currency mechanism, particularly to the movements of the dollar, can be explained by the absence of a common policy for currencies of other countries." Balladur said, "I am profoundly convinced that the European countries have to define together this position with respect to the dollar and the yen." He said Italy eventually would have to abandon its higher margin of fluctuation within the European Montetary System. "I hope that the spectacular improvement of the economic situation and of the balance of payments will permit (Italy) to do it soon." The lira is currently allowed a fluctuation margin either side of its agreed midpoints with other EMS currencies of six pct, against 2.25 pct permitted for the other members. REUTER 
U.S. CONSIDERING OIL INDUSTRY TAX INCENTIVES

The Reagan Administration is considering tax incentives to boost oil output and restore 100,000 jobs, U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said. A tax credit for new exploration would be part of a package to bring 1,000 idle drilling rigs back into operation and raise domestic production by one mln barrels a day, he said. The tax status of exploration might also be changed, Herrington told reporters at the World Petroleum Congress. He said the oil industry was experiencing difficult times internationally and had been devastated in the United States. Consumer demand and a significant decline in domestic production has resulted in a rise in oil imports of one mln barrels a day in over the last 16 months, Herrington said. "Steps must be taken...To reverse the downturn in our domestic energy industry and to safeguard and increase our energy security," he said. The administration is committed to improving marketplace conditions and incentives to spur exploration and development. "This commitment includes rejecting quick fix solutions, like an oil import fee, which are bad for the United States and bad for the world," he added. REUTER 
BLAST ROCKS U.S. MILITARY BUILDING IN MANILA

An explosion rocked a building at the U.S. military office in Manila but there were no immediate reports of casualties, a police spokesman said tonight. He said investigators were still looking into the explosion inside the motor pool building of the Joint United States Military Assistance Group (JUSMAG) in a Manila suburb. Home-made bombs were thrown into the JUSMAG compound last July causing minor damage. Reuter 
SEOUL UNVEILS SHOPPING LIST OF U.S. GOODS

South Korea unveiled a shopping list of 2.6 billion dlrs of U.S. Goods in line with its new policy of seeking to limiting its trade surplus to ease trade friction with Washington. The government said this would help freeze this year's trade surplus with the United States at the 1986 level. "The surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dollars last year from 4.3 billion in 1985, was projected to top 10 billion this year but the government has taken steps to constrain it to the seven billion dollar level," one Trade Ministry official told Reuters. A government statement said the 2.6 billion dlrs was in addition to about two billion dlrs of purchases made last month by a South Korean trade mission to the United States. The announcement follows a visit here this week by U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who said that if South Korea wanted to avoid protectionist retaliation it should not falter in its policies to open its market and cut its surplus. The statement said the government, state agencies and other public institutions would buy 480 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Cars, computers, helicopters, ambulances, motorcycles, medical and laboratory equipment and other products. "This amounts includes 89 mln dlrs worth of purchases which were not originally reflected in their budgets," it added. The list includes 1.13 billion dlrs of capital goods, 700 mln of farm products, 50 mln of aluminium, zinc, polyethylene and other raw materials, and 250 mln of steel, electronics and shipbuilding parts which would be shifted from other nations. Agriculture Ministry officials said South Korea had already bought 310 mln dlrs worth of U.S. Wheat, raw cotton, corn and soybeans. This meant the country would buy from the United States nearly all of the 1.27 billion dlrs of its planned imports of such commodities this year, they said. The government will also take steps to reduce tariffs, accelerate the opening of its markets, voluntarily restrain exports and cut export financing, the statement said. South Korea will also reorganise the country's 3,600 trade agents to deliver better after-sales services for imported products and hold a trade show in November for U.S. Products. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 275,000 to 285,000 head versus 157,000 week ago and 305,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 120,000 to 126,000 head versus 109,000 week ago and 133,000 a year ago. Reuter 
WHITE HOUSE DECLINES COMMENT ON DOLLAR'S SLIDE

White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater declined to comment on the continuing slide of the dollar against the Japanese yen, but said Treasury Secretary James Baker was watching developments. "Jim Baker is monitoring that at the Treasury Department, but at this point we don't have any comment to make on the dollar," Fitzwater told reporters. He was asked at a briefing whether the White House was concerned about the continuing decline in the dollar's value. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER ASKS FAST ACTION ON DEBT BILL

Treasury Secretary James Baker is urging Congress to pass legislation promptly to raise the ceiling on U.S. debt the United States can borrow, Senate majority leader Robert Byrd said. Byrd told reporters Baker visited him late Friday to urge Congress not to add time-delaying amendments to the debt ceiling bill that Congress must pass before May 15. Byrd, a Democrat, said he agrees but said others may want amendments. The current ceiling of 2.3 trillion (2,300 billion) dlrs drops on May 15 to 2.1 trillion dlrs, a level considered too low for U.S. borrowing. Reuter 
BANKER SEES CURRENCY FALLING TO BALANCE TRADE

A leading regional banker said that it was axiomatic that despite market intervention, a country's currency will eventually fall to an exchange rate which balances its international trade and payments accounts. John Medlin, president and chief executive officer for the First Wachovia Corp, said that "substantial and rapid currency devaluations usually are followed in time by surging price inflation, spiralling interest rates and painful economic austerity." Speaking to a banking trade group, he also said the peak of debt writeoff has not yet been reached. Medlin told the Bankers Association for Foreign Trade that ultimately "our nation's budget and trade deficits will be balanced either through voluntary restraints in spending and consumption or through forced austerity imposed by a dispassionate and unmerciful international market place." He said the continuing weakness of the dollar and the recent increase in inflation and interest rates "provide early warning that the classic laws of international economics still are in effect." He also told the association that trying to reduce the trade deficit by erecting protectionist barriers to imports would not give lasting relief. "However, the imposition and enforcement of fair trade rules could help improve imbalances with nations which practice protectionism and deception on us." Medlin noted that the U.S. economy was likely to continue "at best being a sluggish mixture of depressed segments and growth areas." But he said that the business cycle was still alive and that the next downturn "could be deeper and harder to reverse than the last one." Reuter 
NORTHERN TELECOM <NT> U.S. UNIT SETS NEW GROUP

Northern Telecom Ltd's U.S. unit will announce a reorganization today to form a new division focusing on sales and servicing of data communications equipment, spokesman Richard Lowe said. The new division, called data communications and networks, will be formed effective May 1 and will market, sell and service data communications equipment, Lowe said from Northern Telecom Inc's Nashville, Tenn. headquarters. The group will include the company's sales to the U.S. federal government and U.S. military, he said. The U.S. unit's new division will also concentrate on sales to large end user customers who have a variety of equipment combined in one network, as well as data packet switching business for either public or private networks, Northern Telecom spokesman Lowe said. Lowe said the company anticipates revenues from the new operating group will be about 350 mln dlrs in 1987, increasing to about one billion dlrs in five years. "Raising this to a group level within the company demonstrates the importance we see in this marketplace and the rapid growth that could occur there," Lowe said. Lowe said the business of the new group was previously part of Northern Telecom Inc's Dallas-based private branch exchange division. Northern Telecom Inc accounted for about 65 pct of parent company Northern Telecom Ltd's 1986 revenues of 4.38 billion dlrs. Northern Telecom, North America's second largest telecommunications equipment designer and manufacturer, is 52 pct owned by Bell Canada Enterprises Inc <BCE>. Reuter 
PRESSURE GROWS FOR U.S. ACTION TO AID DOLLAR

Pressure is growing in the financial markets for the U.S. to take overt action to stabilize the dollar even though doubts linger that it has fallen far enough to help redress world trade imbalances, economists and dealers said. Some experts believe that a half-point increase in the U.S. discount rate, preferably in conjunction with rate cuts in Tokyo and Bonn, would be enough to discourage sellers. But many fear that more drastic action, such as a U.S. issue of yen-denominated Treasury bonds, may be needed. Despite official warnings about the dangers of a further dollar decline and concerted central bank intervention, the dollar extended its recent sharp depreciation, touching a 40-year low of 137.25 yen in Tokyo earlier today after closing here on Friday at 139.30/40. The impact on other financial markets was devastating. In Tokyo, the stock market suffered its largest single day decline; in London, gold bullion prices rose to four-year highs and in the U.S., long Treasury bond yields surged above 8.80 pct and the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 40 points in hectic early trading. "The problem now is linkage. This is not just a currency problem. It is affecting all the markets," said one senior trader at a major U.S. bank. Up until September of last year, international efforts to redress world trade imbalances appeared to working like a dream; the dollar was falling in an orderly manner, world interest rates were tumbling and inflation was kept in check. In recent months, however, this strategy has begun to show signs of severe stress, with the U.S. imposition of punitive tariffs on Japan threatening to unravel this spirit of cooperating and condemn the world to a damaging trade war. "The markets fear that we have built up a momentum that is really difficult to stop. A U.S. rate hike has become an inevitability," one currency dealer said. "At this point, nothing short of a Fed discount rate increase, ideally combined with further discount rate cuts by Japan and Germany, would seem capable of stabilizing the dollar," said David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co Inc. Allen Sinai of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc predicted a 1/4 to 1/2 point U.S. rate increase before May 19 and a rise in U.S. bank prime lending rates to eight pct from 7-3/4 pct in the near future. But many economists feared that any moderate U.S. rate increases, which appear unlikely to be matched by rate cuts overseas, would be too little, too late. "They should have done this 10 days ago. It would have done the trick then," said one currency analyst. "If they do it now, it would be seen as a defensive measure not an offensive one. It would show policy weakness not strength," added one trader. In addition, economists fear that a discount rate rise might place additional strain on a sluggish U.S. economy and tempt embattled debtor nations to retaliate. A U.S. discount rate increase would also fuel the protectionist fires in Washington, where the House is expected to pass a protectionist trade bill, whatever compromises President Reagan and Prime Minister Nakasone can come up with during their summit later in the week. "Politically, they can't really do it this week," said one currency analyst, pointing out that if it failed to stabilize the dollar, it would only weaken the U.S. negotiating stance. Even if the U.S. retains the upper hand, economists and traders do not hold out high hopes for any major new initiatives from this week's talks. At best, the experts see some sort of accord whereby Japan will agree to stimulate growth and open its domestic markets to outsiders while the U.S. promises to lift its tariffs and support the Group of Seven dollar stabilization agreement. But many fear that this may not be enough to assuage the market's speculative selling fervor, which has now raised fears of weak overseas interest at next week's quarterly U.S. Treasury refunding program. Japanese and European investors have traditionally played an active role in these auctions, which are expected to total 28 to 29 billion dlrs. Consequently, thoughts are turning to the possibility that President Reagan may try to remove foreign investors' worries about currency risk by financing part of the U.S. budget deficit in yen or mark bonds, rather than dollars. While similar action by former President Carter helped to stabilize the dollar in 1978, the White House is clearly reluctant to take such a step, economists said. This hesitance was amply shown last Friday when U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said, "there might well be some who would view (yen-denominated bonds) as a lack of confidence by the U.S. in its own currency." Baker added, "therefore we don't think it's an appropriate thing to do." A foreign exchange analyst at a major Japanese bank here shared Baker's doubts. "Dollar defending measures are very unlikely. They will confirm the dollar's weak undertone and lead to further speculative dollar selling," he said. Thus, it may be less destabilizing for the authorities to stop trying to fight the market's bearish sentiment. In a recent lengthy report, economists at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co concluded, "the dollar should be left free to trade at whatever level market forces produce." Reuter 
EXXON <XON> SEES DROP IN NEW OIL DISCOVERIES

Exxon Corp chairman Lawrence Rawl said total world energy consumption will continue to grow, but added new oil discoveries worldwide are slowing down and can not offset annual production. In a speech at the World Petroleum Congress here, Rawl said oil companies would increasingly be forced to turn to enhanced recovery techniques, very heavy oil and synthetics to compensate for substantial declines in conventional oil production. "What our current outlook suggests is that total world energy consumption will continue to grow steadily in an ever more energy efficient world," Rawl said. But, he added, Exxon projects that "despite today's ample supplies, the world will also be facing up to inherent limitations on the availability of oil and gas, which currently supplies more than half of the world's energy needs." The Exxon chairman told some 1,500 oil executives from around the world that some synthetics projects could become practical when oil reaches 30 dlrs to 40 dlrs a barrel range in real terms. "The question is when and how this will happen," he said. "I believe that synthetic projects will not only re-emerge but will become commercial well below those we were thinking about the last time oil prices moved substantially higher." Rawl said synthetic fuel would become economic at lower prices because companies are investigating "a new generation of ideas that promise substantially lower costs" and projects begun in the late 1970s, which have since been suspended. Rawl also said companies must find new and more effective ways of enhanced recovery from existing oil fields. "It would be my view that new oil discoveries, even with advanced technology, are likely to slow down - not reverse - the decline in worldwide oil discoveries," he said. "So it is essential to find a better way to recover more of the discovered oil from producing fields using chemicals, solvents, heat, and other techniques." Rawl emphasized that private oil companies need some assistance from government in developing synfuels technology. "More importantly, they need to provide a political and economic environment that is stable enough to allow the developmental process to function effectively, he said. Rawl also said stable energy markets serve the best interest of producing and consuming nations by allowing both groups to plan for steady economic growth. He did not make any oil price prediction, saying only that the economic goals of the U.S. and other nations can only be achieved if world oil prices "stabilize within a reasonable range." "Prices must be high enough to meet realistic aspirations for income and encourage resource development in the producing countries, but not so high as to inhibit economic growth in consuming nations," he said. The Exxon chairman also criticized "the occasional attempt of consuming nations to try to control domestic oil prices, calling such protectionist measures disruptive to the world oil market. Reuter 
CCC ADJUSTS PIK DIFFERENTIALS FOR GULF CORN

The Commodity Credit Corporation late Friday readjusted county price differentials for PIK corn redemptions traded off the Louisiana Gulf, according to a CCC spokesman at the Kansas City Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, ASCS, office. He said the adjusted differentials supersede the adjustments made March 30. They represent an increase over the original differentials but are lower than the differential adjustments recently made. For differentials of five to 15 cents, CCC added one cent. For 16-25 cents add two cents, for 26-35 cts add three cts, for 36-45 cts add four cts and for 46-55 cts add five cts. The recent drop in barge freight rates prompted the adjustments, the source said. Reuter 
U.S. COURT REFUSES TO DISMISS ADM-NABISCO SUIT

The Supreme Court refused to dismiss a Justice Department civil suit charging Archer Daniels Midland Co, ADM, and Nabisco Brands Inc with violating the antitrust laws. The high court let stand lower court rulings that rejected the motion by the two companies seeking dismissal of the suit. The suit challenged the 1982 agreement by Nabisco to lease both of its high fructose corn syrup, HFCS, plants to ADM. The department said that before 1982 ADM was the second largest U.S. producer of HFCS while Nabisco ranked third. The deal made ADM the nation's largest producer. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET MULTI-DAY REPURCHASE PACTS

The Federal Reserve is expected to directly supply temporary reserves by arranging three or four-day System repurchase agreements, economists said. They said there is less chance that it will add reserves indirectly instead. If the Fed fails to supply reserves, however, economists said this will be a strong indication that it is firming policy, perhaps in preparation for a near term discount rate increase from 5-1/2 pct. Federal funds, which averaged 6.29 pct on Friday, opened at 6-7/16 pct and remained there in early trading. Reuter 
POGO <PPP> SEES INCREASING OIL PRODUCTION

Pogo Producing Co said it should gain some 700 to 800 barrels per day of additional oil production when new onshore wells start production in June. The company said work on offshore properties appears to be on schedule to complete the addition before year end of about 10 mln cubic feet of gas and 400 barrels of liquids to Pogo's daily producing capabilities. In the first quarter, liquids production averaged 8,525 barrels daily, down from 11,233 barrels a day in the year earlier quarter. Reuter 
OCCIDENTAL <OXY> HAS STAKE IN NORWAY OIL FIND

Occidental Petroleum Corp said a group in which it is a participant discovered oil in the offshore Norwegian North Sea Block 9/2-1 exploratory well. The well tested at a maximum rate of 6,800 barrels of 39 degree API gravity oil and 918 thousand cubic feet of gas through a 3/4 inch choke. The well, the first to be drilled on the block, was drilled in about 320 feet of water to a total depth of 12,228 feet subsea. Occidental has a 10-pct stake in the 136,067-acre block operated by Statoil, the Norwegian state oil company, which holds a 50 pct interest. Reuter 
SHULTZ SAYS U.S. WHEAT BONUS OFFER UP TO USDA

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz said it was up to the Agriculture Department to decide whether to offer subsidized wheat to the Soviet Union. Shultz told the Newspaper Farm Editors of America that a wheat bonus offer to the Soviet Union "is something that I basically leave to the Agriculture Department to figure out." Last year, Shultz spoke out against President Reagan's decision to offer subsidized U.S. wheat to the Soviet Union -- an offer Moscow spurned. "I've always been a little put off by the idea that we would arrange our food supplies so as to price them in such a way that the Soviet housewife could buy American-produced food for less than the American housewife could buy it," Shultz said. "It also seems to me that if we are going to sell in world markets, we have to meet the price," he added. Shultz called proposals to broaden the eligibility criteria of USDA's export enhancement program (EEP) to include all U.S. customers "questionable." An across-the-board EEP would mark a "considerable change" in the current program, which Shultz said is designed "to say to other countries that subsidize, particularly the European Common Market, that we're not going to give up our markets to those subsidized sales and we'll have a little kit bag that will meet that competition and hold our markets for our farmers." "If you just go across-the-board and subsidize everything, that's a different order of program and seems to me quite questionable," he said. Reuter 
NORTH AMERICAN GAS MARKET SOUGHT BY FERC

Blocking Canadian gas imports would not serve the long-term interests of the United States, said Martha Hesse, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, adding that the development of a freely open North American energy market should be encouraged. "I firmly believe that the long-term interest of U.S. consumers would not be served by any attempt to promote a 'Made in America' label for gas," she said at an oil and gas conference. She said the commission recognizes the important role Canadian gas plays in the American market, despite grumblings among U.S. domestic producers of the competition from north of the border. Recent figures show Canada shipped 2.48 billion Canadian dlrs worth of gas to the U.S. in 1986, down sharply from the 3.91 billion dlr total in 1985. "But we do seriously recognize the importance in the years to come of the supplies of Canadian gas to U.S. markets," she said. "And even in the short term, competition is generally a good thing," she added. She said the commission is concentrating on improving the access to U.S. pipelines, something that would be of great benefit to Canadian producers. Hesse said transportation of Canadian gas is already improving, gas imports rising more than 21 pct in the first two months of the year. But Hesse declined to comment in detail on the controversial December order, known as the "as billed issue", because it is the subject of a new hearing. The order, which is being fought by Canada, involves barring U.S. pipeline companies and consumers from paying certain Canadian shipping expenses. Hesse said the order was never intended "as an attempt to extend the arm of U.S. regulations across the border." However, a senior Canadian government energy official warned delegates the ruling could severely weaken Canadian gas producers. "Besides the extra territorial effect, there is the potential that Canadian consumers and producers may end up subsidizing the cost of transportation services originally incurred on behalf of U.S. customers," said Robert Skinner, an assistant deputy minister in Canada's energy department. Reuter 
DECLINE IN U.S. DOLLAR MAY BOOST OPEC OIL PRICE

The sliding value of the U.S. dollar may soon force the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise its oil benchmark price, setting the stage for prices as high as 22 dlrs a barrel by yearend, top executives with U.S. oil companies said. The current benchmark price of 18 dlrs a barrel was established by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) at its December meeting when the cartel set a 15.8 mln barrel per day production ceiling. But the continuing weakness of the U.S. dollar, the currency used by OPEC for its oil sales, is making the 18 dlr price difficult to sustain, said Fred Hartley, chairman of Unocal Corp <UCL>. The U.S. dollar has fallen in value by about 10 pct since December and has fallen by a total of about 40 pct during the past two years. Hartley told Reuters he expected significantly higher oil prices this winter and would not rule out the potential for 25 dlrs a barrel by the spring of 1988. "I think June will be the critical month to see what they do," said Hartley, who was in Houston to attend the World Petroleum Congress. OPEC has scheduled a regular meeting in June which some experts believe is likely to revive suggestions that oil should be priced according to a basket of world currencies instead of the U.S. dollar. E.H. Clark, chairman of <Baker Hughes Inc>, said the Saudi kingdom's need to generate revenues -- rather than greater world demand -- would drive any price increases. "The Saudis have made committments and have a balance of trade based on receiving 18 dlrs a barrel for this oil. But the U.S. dollar won't buy as much as it did five or six months ago," Clark said in an interview. "I'm betting on the Saudi king's need to sustain revenues." Clark predicted that world oil prices would top 22 dlrs a barrel by January one. However, the authoritative Middle East Economic Survey reported yesterday that Saudi Arabia would not seek to increase OPEC oil prices unless oil demand showed strong growth. Saudi sources told the newsletter that the policy was based on the longterm need to restore the competitive position of OPEC oil against other energy sources. Many oil industry experts are forecasting a modest increase in world oil demand averaging one pct annually during the next few years. Michel Moreau, a director of the <Elf Aquitaine Group>, said he believed the worldwide oil industry had reached a consensus that prices of at least 20 dlrs a barrel were necessary to cover exploration costs, royalties and taxes on new production. The 20 dlr level will be reached this year only if the cash-strapped nations of Nigeria, Egypt and Gabon refrain from discounting oil prices or increasing production levels, Moreau said. "I think if more than two (OPEC nations) defect, the production agreement will fall apart," he said. "But this threat is the Saudis' big stick to keep producers in line. Nobody wants a repeat of the collapse that occurred in 1986." Lawrence Rawl, chairman of Exxon Corp <XON>, told Reuters he expected prices would remain at 18 dlrs through the end of 1987, adding that 20 dlrs a barrel was a possibility. Other major companies are taking a more cautious view of prices, fearing that some OPEC members may yet upset the cartel's production agreement. "This is a year of testing," said Alfred Munk, manager of foreign affairs at Amoco Corp. (AN). "If they fail, there may be a price decline to about 14 dlrs a barrel." French-owned Total CFP's vice president Pierre Vaillaud said, "Demand is not going up very quickly, at best maybe one percent a year. You can't change the price with just one pct," Vaillaud said. Reuter 
NYSE SAYS ADVEST <ADV> DECLINES COMMENT

Advest Group Inc said it is against company policy to comment on unusual market activity or rumors in response to inquiries on the unusual activity of its stock, according to the New York Stock Exchange. The stock closed up 1-1/2 to 15. The exchange said it had contacted the company and requested a public statement indicating whether there are any corporate developments which may explain the activity. Reuter 
MORGAN STANLEY GROUP <MS> UNIT IN GAS DEAL

Morgan Stanley Group Inc unit Natural Gas Clearinghouse Inc said it has reached agreement with (Pan-Alberta Gas Ltd) of Canada to import substantial quantities of natural gas for its U.S. customers. The company said potentially 500 mln cubic feet a day of Canadian natural gas could be imported under the agreement. It said the natural gas would be competitively priced but did not refer to specific prices. Pan-Alberta is owned by Nova <NVA.A.T> and Alberta Energy Co, the company added. Reuter 
AMERICUS TRUST/KODAK <KDUWI> BEGINS TRADING

The American Stock Exchange said an investment trust which issues units in exchange for Eastman Kodak Co <EK> shares began trading today on a "when issued" basis. AMEX said the trust, known as the Americus Trust for Kodak shares, trades under the ticker symbol KDUWI and will accept a maximum of 7,500,000 shares. The trust included two categories which traded separately from the units, known as prime and score components, which respectively allowed investors to receive current income or capital appreciation potential, it said. Reuter 
U.S. MAY HAVE TO ACT TO SUPPORT DOLLAR

The prospect of renewed assaults on the dollar might force the United States eventually to unveil distasteful measures to bolster support for its currency, monetary analysts and economists said. Treasury Secretary James Baker has acknowledged that the Reagan administration discussed the possibility of issuing yen-denominated U.S. government bonds to support the dollar. But he has also dismissed speculation that he was ready to take such an unusual step. Nonetheless, monetary sources say the issue has been seriously discussed by the administration. "It is unlikely that we would undertake to do that now," Baker said last week. "In our view there might well be some who would view (issuing U.S. yen bonds) as, in fact, a lack of confidence by the U.S. in its own currency. And therefore we don't think it's an appropriate thing to do." But if the Reagan administration did announce measures, they could be a part of an internationally-coordinated effort to end the instability in financial markets with genuine action to reduce massive economic imbalances, monetary analysts believe. And, like a currency defense package unveiled by the Carter administration, issuing yen bonds could be accompanied by a rise in the discount rate, now 5.5 pct. The Federal Reserve has resisted pressure to raise this key rate so far, chiefly, some Fed officials say, because it could hurt economic growth. Another concern is the fragile international debt situation. Analysts who expect a currency support package are divided over its possible timing. Some even believe an announcement could come this week during a visit to Washington by Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone. "It would give some real focus to the visit, and it might steady the dollar and prevent it from going down," said Charles Taylor, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities. But monetary sources said they thought it unlikely that the Reagan administration would resort to measures which would bring to mind the troubles of President Carter. Until very recently, the current administration has urged a lower dollar to help redress its huge trade deficit while Carter faced a weak dollar as confidence in his economic policies collapsed. But today, Washington's policies are increasingly in question. The Carter plan was unleashed on Nov. 1, 1978. And it was a resounding success. "This package really gave credibility to the administration to get the dollar up," said Robert Hormats, vice-president of Goldman Sachs Inc and a former senior U.S. economic in the Carter and Reagan Administrations. The dollar then stood at just under 1.87 marks and around 188 yen. Today it stands around 1.79 marks and 139 yen. "The problem is now that the administration in rhetoric is evidencing concern about the dollar but in practice is really doing very little," Hormats said of statements to support the dollar by U.S. officials. Several currency traders and foreign central bank officials think these statements still fall short of unequivocally saying the dollar has declined far enough. Carter issued 6.4 billion dlrs of mark and swiss franc bonds aimed essentially at buttressing pyschological support for the dollar but also at attracting foreign investors, who had lost confidence in the dollar, to U.S. government notes. The package was supported by a one pct rise in the discount rate, to 9.5 pct, drawings on U.S. monetary reserves at the International Monetary Fund and sales of U.S.-held SDRS to other IMF members. It was also supported by increased Fed currency swap lines with other central banks and stepped up official U.S. gold sales. Stephen Axilrod, a former Fed official who is now vice-chairman of Nikko Securities, said, "I think it's very unlikely they would do that now." He argued that it was politically difficult to take action to support the dollar while Japan and West Germany have still to fulfill pledges to stimulate their economies. But most analysts believe a currency support package would only work if genuine economic measures to redress world trade imbalances are undertaken by the leading industrial powers. It could coincide with the June Venice summit of leaders of the seven major industrial democracies -- the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. Hormats said he believed the currency has to decline slightly further for a package to have impact. He said the seven nations' Paris Accord to stabilize currencies was forged too soon to fundamentally change market sentiment. "I think we're nearing a point when they would feel (politically) comfortable doing this," Hormats said. Many analysts think the administration's reluctance to act firmly on the dollar has been due to its desire to keep up the pressure on its allies to bolster their economies and for fear of fanning protectionist sentiment in Congress. But Hormats said "there will be a point at which the government of the United States shows it does give a damn for the dollar." Reuter 
GENERAL DYNAMICS <GD> NAMED AS DEFENDANT

General Dynamics Corp was named as a defendant in a multimillion dlr fraud suit brought by the U.S. government in 1985 stemming from government subsidized shipbuilding contracts, according to court documents. The government originally filed the suit against two of Dynamic's officers and two officers of its subcontractor, Frigitemp Corp. The suit, filed in federal court in New York, seeks to reclaim funds from kickbacks, overpayments and subsidies that were allegedly overexpended on two shipbuilding projects. The government paid 70 mln dlrs in subsidies between 1978 and 1982, court papers said. Reuter 
GOVERNMENTS SEEN MORE INVOLVED IN OIL DRILLING

The offshore oil drilling industry will attract increasing numbers of government connected firms in the 1990s, according to Ronald Tappmeyer, Vice Chairman of Reading and Bates Drilling Co. Tappmeyer told the Offshore Technology Conference that contract drilling was reaching the same kind of situation that oil producing companies reached when their oilfields were nationalized in nations as Venezuela, Iran and Saudi Arabia. He said local connections to the nation whose waters are being drilled was an increasingly important factor in the market. "We have seen contractors put at competitive disadvantages in nations in which they had worked successfully for years essentially moved aside to make room for locally-owned firms or a locally-built rig," he said. Tappmeyer, who is president of the International Association of Drilling Contractors, said how far the trend would spread depends on the growth of trade protectionism. He added that international contractors will increasingly find their role restricted to regions that require special expertise and experience, such as wildcat areas and severe environments such as in the Arctic and extremely deep waters. Tappmeyer also said he expects producing companies to provide the main financing for offshore drilling in the coming decade as banks will be unwilling to repeat overexposing themselves and drilling contractors will have difficulty providing financing out of cash flow. At the same time, he said he saw the financing as indirect as he does not see producers getting back in the rig-owning business. He also said projectfinancing will have to be backed up by work commitments to guarantee the payoff of construction costs. For the time being, he said there was a superabundance of rigs. But he said there will be a need for new, technologically advanced rigs within a few years. He said the floating-drilling rigs were most likely to benefit from new developments in technology, adding that by 2,000 there should not be an ocean left that is too deep, too cold, too stormy or too remote to be explored. Reuter 
NERVOUS CONSOLIDATION SEEN IN CURRENCY FUTURES

Currency futures at the International Monetary Market (IMM) are likely to consolidate near current levels in nervous trading conditions over the next few days, although underlying sentiment remains positive, currency analysts said. "Currencies are likely to muddle around these levels," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Parker Mills. Traders are unwilling to establish either long or short positions in futures because of uncertainty over upcoming trade talks and U.S. trade legislation, they said. Japanese prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and President Reagan will meet Thursday and Friday to discuss trade tensions between their two countries, while at the same time the Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives will be voting on a controversial trade bill. "Unless something really surprising comes out of the Nakasone/Reagan talks, I don't see the dollar getting above 142 (yen) and 1.83 (marks)," Mills said. The equivalent in futures of those interbank levels are about 0.007050 to 0.007025 in the June yen contract and about 0.5500 in June marks, she said. June yen closed at 0.007191 on Tuesday while June marks finished the day at 0.5602. Mills said, however, that "the chances of them (Reagan and Nakasone) coming up with something new are limited." One possibility might be a Japanese discount rate cut, but "they probably won't do that unless we raise our discount rate." Recent firmness in the federal funds rate and the Federal Reserve's slowness in adding reserves to the banking system has heightened sentiment that the money-policy making body has already tightened credit and a discount rate hike is possible, analysts said. Recent weakness in currencies and strength in the dollar has been more the result of nervous shortcovering ahead of the meeting rather than reaction to the White House statement Monday supporting a stable dollar, said Harris bank currency analyst Earl Johnson. Traders "are worried about the outcome of the talks between Reagan and Nakasone," and as the talks are late in the week, the market may not get a chance to react to any developments until Monday, Johnson said. Until then, Johnson expects the dollar to remain in a broad range between 1.77 and 1.85 marks and 137 to 140.50 yen. Chicago Corp analyst John Bilson, however, expects a rally in the European currencies over the near-term, while the yen, at this point is overbought. "The Japanese are moving away from the U.S. market," and investment funds formerly directed to the U.S. are likely to flow into Europe, Bilson said. The chief beneficiary of such a flow of funds will be sterling, Bilson said. "Sterling rates are about four pct above Japanese rates, despite the half point rate cut," Bilson said. Major U.K. banks lowered their base lending rates today to 9.5 pct. In addition to a favorable interest rate spread which should attract funds, Bilson said the firm oil market and the strong political situation of Prime Minister Thatcher also make British investments attractive. Passage of the trade bill, which includes an amendment by Missouri Democrat Richard Gephardt that would force a 10 pct annual cut in imports from countries with an excessive trade surplus with the U.S. if they fail to remove unfair trade barriers to the U.S. after six months of negatiations, would likely pressure the yen, Bilson said. Bilson, however, said the legislation is unlikely to pass, but that Nakasone is likely to bring a promise to open Japanese markets to U.S. goods and back it up with government contracts with U.S. manufacturers. Reuter 
GLOBAL ECONOMIC ILLS MAY TAKE YEARS TO RESOLVE

A study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development says it may take years to resolve the huge economic imbalances now plaguing the world economy, U.S. and western officials said. The paper was expected to stimulate policy debate among senior officials of leading industrial nations preparing for next month's annual meeting of finance ministers in Paris. The May 11-13 ministerial meeting of the 24-nation OECD, a forum for coordinating economic policies, has taken on added significance in view of the difficulties dogging the attempts of major nations to achieve joint goals. Despite two meetings of the seven leading industrial powers -- the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada -- pledges to change policy have still to be turned into action. As a result, financial markets have been unusually unstable and have focussed their attention on every international meeting for clues that change is in the air. The study concludes that there needs to be much greater fiscal action by the United States, West Germany and Japan to reduce their massive trade imbalances, a U.S. official said. "We looked at what we could do to get from here to there. We've got to continue cutting the deficit, and there needs to be domestic expansion (in West Germany and Japan)," the official said, noting that significant actions are called for. Officials noted the study strongly underscores the need for action by West Germany and Japan. Seperately, western officials said they understood that U.S. overtures to Japan and West Germany to cut their short-term interest rates have been rebuffed for now. Such rate reductions would have helped stabilize the steep decline of the dollar, by widening the difference between bond yields in the United States, on the one hand, and in Japan and West Germany on the other. One official said that while the policy actions called for were similar to those urged by the seven, the study shows "it's going to take several years to resolve (the trade imbalances)." The OECD has set three pct as the necessary target for average annual growth in the industrial world if trade imbalances are to be corrected and the Third World debt crisis kept under control. The study strongly implies these targets will not be met without major action by the three leading nations, officials said. Equally, it suggests that without major fiscal expansion by Bonn and Tokyo, and a corresponding deep reduction in the U.S. budget deficit, the current trend of an upturn in U.S. interest rates and a weakening dollar will go uncorrected. U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker says the dollar's deep decline alone will shave only 15 billion dlrs off the roughly 140 billion dlrs U.S. deficit in goods and services this year. But the study group also found that progress has been made and the seven main nations are moving in the right direction. In Paris this February, the seven agreed that fiscal actions by the three major powers would help them stabilize currencies around levels ruling then. The Reagan administration, this week facing the prospect of a tough trade bill aimed at curbing foreign trade surpluses, also promised to fight protectionism. The officials said Washington must move ahead with budget deficit cuts of around 36 billion dlrs, a figure set as a goal by the Democratic leadership of the House of Representatives. They also called for significant increases in the budget deficits of Japan and West Germany. Since the study group met, Japan has announced a roughly 35 billion dlr supplementary budget which was warmly welcomed by Washington. Nonetheless there is caution over both the timing and the content of the proposed Japanese budget. Financial markets, unconvinced by yet another Japanese promise of action, have pushed the yen sharply higher against the dollar. While no West German fiscal action is promised before January 1988, U.S. officials would welcome such a move. "We'd love them to accelerate their tax cuts," one official said. West German economic growth fell steeply in the first quarter this year, but the official said Bonn has reassured U.S. officials they expect growth to pick up again. If faster German growth fails to emerge, Bonn could find itself under pressure to speed up tax cuts planned for early 1988 when leaders of the seven meet in Venice this June. reuter 
SOVIET SAYS DATA SHARING WILL HELP FIND OIL

A Soviet geologist said scientists need to coordinate data about onshore and offshore oil deposits to help identify global formations that would indicate other potential discoveries of oil and gas reserves. Vladmir Vladiminovich Semenovich, the head of petroleum geology at Moscow State University, told delegates at the World Petroleum Congress that exploration efficiency could also be improved through new and more sophisticated technology. "We should emphasize that when having the data about petroleum distribution onshore and offshore, it is possible to clarify the idea of global regularities in oil and gas prospects," Semenovich said. "However, much work should be done to coordinate data concerning the structure and oil and gas prospects in adjoining onshore and offshore basins." Sharing the information could help geologists better predict regional trends and underground formations that indicate the presence of oil or gas, he said. Semenovich also said that existing estimates of the potential oil and natural gas resources of the world may need to be revised upward as oil companies continue to examine unexplored regions. The world, which has already produced 476 billion barrels of oil and gas, has a current total of about 733 billion barrels in proved reserves. Undiscovered resources are estimated at about 1.4 trillion barrels, or about half of the total ultimate reserves, Semenovich said. "There are a lot of unstudied regions all over the world and, as far as the already known basins, one continues to find additional reserves," he said, noting that Antarctica has been virtually ignored. "The existing estimate of potential resources of the world may need to be enlarged." To find deeper and more expensive reserves, scientists will need to use 3-D mapping of underground formations and laser spectrometry to measure bitumen in soils and plants among other techniques, he said. He estimated that continental slopes contain about 10 to 13 pct of all offshore reserves. Semenovich also said that virtually all of the total oil and gas resources now estimated to exist in the world would be discovered and placed in production during the next 50 years. After his speech, Semenovich told Reuters that Soviet oil production was increasing. "The difficulties of 1985 have been overcome and we're now back to normal production," he said. The Soviet Union, the world's largest producer of oil, had experienced drilling and technical problems that cut total liquids production from 12.45 mln barrels a day in 1984 to 12.1 mln barrels a day in 1985. Last year, the Soviets produced an estimated 12.3 mln barrels. When asked about the recent reopening and testing of a coal gasification project in Soviet Central Asia, Semenovich said the project was important because of the lack of oil reserves in the region. Semenovich declined to identify at what level of world oil prices the coal gasification process would become economic again. "It's too expensive for the time being," Semenovich said. "Theoretical development is underway and tests are being run. For the moment, coal gasification is a very small part of the energy industry," he said. Reuter 
TAIWAN BUYS 81,000 TONNES OF U.S. MAIZE

The joint committee of Taiwan's maize importers awarded contracts to two U.S. Firms to supply two shipments totalling 81,000 tonnes, a committee spokesman said. Continental Grain Co of New York won a contract for the supply of 54,000 tonnes, priced at 96.17 U.S. Dlrs a tonne c and f Taiwan for delivery between May 21 and June 5. Gulf Coast Grain Inc of Memphis, Tennessee, won a contract for 27,000 tonnes at 100.75 dlrs a tonne also c and f Taiwan, for May 21-June 5 delivery. REUTER 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 275,000 to 285,000 head versus 283,000 week ago and 312,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 125,000 to 128,000 head versus 124,000 week ago and 136,000 a year ago. Reuter 
U.S. INDEX SAID CONSISTENT WITH GROWTH FORECAST

Robert Ortner, under secretary of commerce, said last month's 0.4 pct rise in the Index of Leading Indicators was consistent with growth of 3.0 pct this year. He said in a statement that stock prices accounted for a large share of the index's growth in the last six months. "Excluding stock prices, the rate of increase was still a healthy 6.2 pct and is consistent with 3.0 pct or more overall economic growth during 1987," he said. Reuter 
CCC ACEPTS BONUS BID ON WHEAT TO ZAIRE - USDA

The Commodity Credit Crporation has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 8,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat to Zaire, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The wheat is scheduled for shipment May 11-June 11, 1987, the department said. The bonus, to Continental Grain Co, was 32.55 dlrs per tonne and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. An additional 7,000 tonnes of wheat are still available to Zaire under the Export Enhancement program initiative announced on October 17, 1986, it said. Reuter 
USDA PROGRAM TO FIGHT SCREWWORMS IN LIVESTOCK

Sterile screwworm flies will be released this weekend in Miami, Florida, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, to combat a potential outbreak of screwworms, a serious pest of livestock, the Agriculture Department said. The action follows identification April 21 of screwworm larvae in a hunting dog which passed through airports in Miami and Albuquerque while being returned to the United States from Venezuela, it said. Sexually sterilized screwworm flies will be released twice a week for six weeks in an effort to eradicate any breeding populations of the flies. Adult femals usually mate only once in their lifetime and eggs resulting from matings between sterile and fertile flies will not hatch, thus ending the life cycle, it said. Reuter 
U.S. MARCH LEADING INDEX SIGNALS MODEST GROWTH

A 0.4 pct rise in the March U.S. index of leading indicators points to continued moderate U.S. real economic growth, economists said. "The report is consistent with a modestly growing economy," said Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc. "The economy is not robust, but we're not heading into a recession either." "The report suggests more of the same: continued moderate growth," said Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Government and Co Inc. "The gain was mostly in stock prices. There was no change in the fundamental movement of the economy." The Commerce Department said that higher stock prices led the March gain. Unemployment claims, vendor performance, contracts and orders for plant and equipment, manufacturers' orders, and building permits also were positive. The average workweek, raw materials prices, and money supply detracted from the index. Economists noted that the index signals the direction but not the magnitude of changes in gross national product. "You can't derive profound conclusions on the economy from the report," McCarthy said. "The link between leading indicators and the economy is not strong." Reuter 
AMEX STARTS TRADING AMERICAN LAND CRUISERS <RVR>

The <American Stock Exchange> said it has started trading the common stock of American Land Cruisers Inc, which had traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
ENERGY/HEAVY OILS

The oil price collapse of 1986 put development of a vast petroleum resource -- heavy and extra heavy oils -- on hold. But as oil prices increase the long-term economic outlook is favorable, oil industry experts said. "Estimated potential world reserves of extra heavy oils exceed 500 billion barrels, of which more than half are located in Venezuela," Juan Chacin Guzman, President of Petroleos de Venezuela told the World Petroleum Congress. "And this virtually unused resource represents a prime example of the need to invest in technology to ensure tomorrow's energy future," he added. Venezuela had to reduce heavy crude oil output in favor of light oils because of economics and a very limited market. Not many refineries have been upgraded to process the heavy oils. "Improved technology has the potential for reducing the capital investment and operating costs of typical heavy oil development projects by 30 pct or more," Gordon Willmon, VP and general manager, oil sands and coal department, Esso Resources Canada Ltd said at the World Petroleum Congress. Crude oil prices fell under 10 dlrs dlrs a barrel last summer as OPEC members increased production to gain market share, but have since risen to around 18 dlrs because the OPEC production/pricing agreement is basically in tact. Willmon said light and medium crude oils currently supply 90 pct of world oil demand yet they account for less than 25 pct of remaining petroleum resources. "So future demand increasingly will be met from the various forms of heavy oil," Willmon said. Heavy crude oil resources include extra-heavy oil/tar sand, natural bituminous sands and oil shales (in sedimentary rock). Willmon cited major factors that will make heavy oil development economical, including real and stable growth in crude oil prices, favorable fiscal terms, and improved technology. He said he expects "all pieces of the puzzle to fit together." But he cautioned that the short-term outlook is very sensitive to crude oil prices. And he said the most important factor in development of heavy oils is the recovery of the price of crude. Willmon said the price of light crude must be about eight dlrs higher than heavy crude before there is an incentive for an oil company to upgrade its refinery to process heavy oil. He said the current price differential is only about five dlrs a barrel. Willmon indicated that a benchmark crude oil price above 20 dlrs would be ideal. But he said currently under study are a broad range of high potential cost-effective technologies for resources recovery, transportation and upgrading of heavy oils, which would permit commercial development despite a lower crude oil price outlook. Willmon said these technologies included enhanced recovery by steam injection and oil-and-water emulsion to reduce the viscocity of the heavy oils so they can flow easily through a pipeline. He said such technologies may substantially reduce current captial investment and operating costs. But he emphasized that innovative technology alone may not encourage new investment, that oil prices need to show a meaningful and sustained recovery. Most of the expenses associated with heavy oils production is fixed operating costs as in an oil sands project, rather than in exploration, according to Robert Smith, Senior VP Operations <Syncrude Canada Ltd>. While exploration costs for conventional crude oil range from four to nine dlrs a barrel, discovery costs for synthetic crude from oil sands are nearly zero because the location and nature of the deposit are known, according to Smith. But the remote location of oil sands deposits mean that everything required to build and operate the plant must come from outside the area. Willmon also said, "Public policy could best help by providing financial support to offset the high cost of technology developmemt which would help generate projects that could survive even at low oil prices for extended periods of time." U.S. Energy Secretary John Herrington said, "The Reagan Administration is firmly committed, without equivocation, to continuing our efforts to improve conditions and incentives in the marketplace that will spur oil and gas exploration and development." Reuter 
ECONOMIST SEES SLOWDOWN IN U.S. ECONOMIC GROWTH

The U.S. Economy has peaked and will slow to a growth rate of between 2.5 pct and three pct for the remainder of 1987, First Boston Corp Managing Director Albert Wojnilower said. He told an investment conference the U.S. Economy will not be able to sustain the 4.3 pct growth rate recorded in first quarter gross national product. He said continued intermittent attacks on the U.S. Currency could lead to a substantial rise in long term interest rates. However, he predicted that rates will eventually decline either in anticipation of a recession or because of one. REUTER 
SEC OKAYS MIDWEST STOCK TRADING OF OTC ISSUES

The Securities Exchange Commission decided to allow the Midwest Stock exchange to trade 25 stocks currently listed on the National Securities Dealers Association Automated Quotation, NASDAQ, system. The SEC's unanimous decision granting so-called unlisted trading privileges to the 25 NASDAQ securities will allow the Midwest Exchange to begin trading the issues by May 18 under a one-year pilot program. Unlisted trading privileges allow trading of stocks on an exchange other than the one on which the stocks are listed. Before it would approve the Midwest Exchange request for the unlisted trading privileges, the SEC had insisted that it and the National Association of Securities Dealers, NASD, come up with a way of reporting and combining information on stock prices and transactions. SEC officials said they needed to be assured that information on the trading in and price of the securities would be in one place, for accuracy and consistency. But since the exchanges still have not come with a master plan, the SEC approved an interim plan under which NASDAQ terminals would be put on the Midwest Exchange floor. All trades in the 25 over the counter securities done on the Midewest Exchange will be quoted in the NASDAQ system as well as on the Midwest Exchange under the interim plan. The NASD, Midwest Exchange and several other exchanges have said they are working on a master plan for consolidating the reporting of price quotes and other information on stocks now traded on NASDAQ and listed on one or more exchanges. But an SEC official said such a new master reporting system is not expected to be in place until early next year. The Midwest Exchange proposed the interim reporting plan so that it can begin unlisted trading immediately, he said. The 25 securities to be traded on the Midwest Exchange are the first over the counter securities to be traded on any exchange besides the NASDAQ. Some issues listed on exchanges, however, are traded on the NASDAQ. The 25 securities had an average dollar volume last year of 2.4 billion dlrs and made up 18 pct of the dollar volume of all the securities quoted on the NASD's National Market System. SEC officials said they would review the pilot program in about a year. It was intended to spur more competition in the securities industry. Reuter 
OIL IMPORT FEE BILL INTRODUCED IN U.S. HOUSE

A bill that would impose an oil import fee to support a world floor price for oil of 25 dlrs a barrel was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by 12 Congressmen from oil-producing states. The variable import fee would be dropped if oil prices rise above 25 dlrs a barrel, sponsors of the bill said. Revenues from the fee would be used to buy domestic oil from stripper wells - those that produce 10 barrels a day or less - at a fixed price of 25 dlrs a barrel. Purchases would stop when prices rose above that level. "Time is running out on the domestic oil and gas industry," Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, said in a statement. "An oil import fee is really just the premium for a national insurance policy." President Reagan opposes an oil import fee, but supporters of the bill said they hoped for action on it before the end of the year. Reuter 
DEVCON INTERNATIONAL <DEVC.O> GETS CONTRACT

Devcon International Corp said it has received a 13.5 mln dlr contract from the government of Antigua for harbor dredging and construction of a deepwater pier at St. John's, with completion expected within two years. It said work will start immediately. Reuter 
REUTERS <RTRSY.O> SHAREHOLDERS APPROVE CHANGES

Reuters Holdings PLC said shareholders approved changes in the company's articles of association to allow it to seek a listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The shareholders also approved a stock option plan tied to performance. The plan allows grants of options up to eight times earnings to a small group of executives, the company said. The shareholders approved the measures at a special meeting following the company's annual meeting. The amendment allowing the Tokyo listing exempts the <Japan Securities Clearing Corp> from a 15 pct shareholding limit contained in the articles of association. Under rules of the Tokyo exchange, shares in foreign companies owned by Japanese must be registered in the name of Japan Securities Clearing or its nominee, the company said. Reuters, based in London, supplies a wide range of information services to business and news media subscribers. Reuter 
OFFSHORE OIL DRILLING MOVING INTO DEEPER WATERS

Offshore drilling for oil and gas will be moving into deeper and deeper waters, according to Ronald L. Geer, a consultant with Shell Oil Co. and president of the Marine Technology Society. Geer told a press conference at the Offshore Technology Conference that the technology existed to drill exploratory wells in up to 10,000 feet of water. But he added that as the industry moves more and more to floating systems as opposed to fixed bottom supported structures, the financial risks involved were greater. He said such projects involved six to nine year time frames, and there was a "reluctance for people to stick their necks too far out." Shell holds the world record for the deepest exploratory well, at 6,900 feet, in the Wilmington Canyon in the Atlantic offshore New Jersey in 1984. The company is currently drilling a 6,700 foot well in the Atwater Valley in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Louisiana. Meanwhile, Brazil's Petrobras set a world record for underwater production when they brought a well in 1,350 feet of water offshore Rio de Janeiro state into production in January. Geer said the industry was particularly interested in the Green Canyon field offshore Louisiana where a number of companies, including Shell, a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell <RD>, Dupont Co's <DD> Conoco Inc, USX Corp's <X> Marathon Oil Co, Standard Oil Co <SRD> and <Placid Oil Co>, are working, many of them testing new deep-water technologies. Of particular interest is the controversial Penrod-72 system being operated by the Dallas-based Hunt brothers who last year placed Placid Oil under bankruptcy court protection in order to avoid foreclosures on its valuable oil properties. They have been seeking the right to use assets to drill oil wells in the Green Canyon through Penrod, arguing that continued development of the project is essential to their ability to get out of their financial crisis. Earlier this month, the Hunts were granted permission by a bankruptcy court to pursue the Green Canyon project. The Penrod system involves a controversial floating production platform with well heads sitting 1,350 feet down on the ocean floor. Some 24 wells will be attached to the wellhead, with one satellite well sitting in a record 1,700 feet of water. Geer said he could not comment on the Penrod project, other than to note that it involves so many new technologies, it might have a problem fitting all the pieces together within a specific time frame. He also said he believed the potential production from the project could be in line with what the Hunt Brothers have projected . The Hunts' creditor banks have contended the Hunts have exaggerated the potential of the project. "They're in the ballpark," he said, of the numbers, adding that he did not have enough information to comment further. Reuter 
GAS GROWTH SEEN HURT BY REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY

Demand for natural gas has failed to grow in proportion to the decline in oil deliveries because of concerns over unresolved regulatory issues in the United States, said industry analysts and gas utility company sources. "Natural gas is not free to compete," said Larry Makovich, director of utilities service at Data Resources Inc, "problems on pipeline open access and take-or-pay liabilities still weigh heavily on end-users' decision to switch to natural gas." A manager with an East Coast gas distribution company, agreed that reluctance among end-users often stemmed from fear of unresolved regulatory issues. "The fact that at the federal level open access is not yet firmly in place threatens to impede free flow of natural gas from producers to consumers," he said. Michael German, an economist with the American Gas Association, said while a significant amount of gas was now replacing oil in dual-fuel boilers, the progress of expanding the marketshare of gas was slow. First quarter natural gas consumption data is not available until June. In the first three months of 1987, residual fuel demand fell by an average of 55,000 barrels per day, according to the American Petroleum Institute. Natural gas, however, was not able to take full advantage of the decline in oil consumption. AGA's German said that while industrial consumers were concerned with regulatory issues in their long-range capital investment decisions, in the dual-fuel boiler market relied on spot purchases. "With all the capability of switching (from oil to natural gas) already there, price of the fuel is the only concern," he said, adding that compared with the same period last year, January natural gas price at burner tip is 16 pct lower for industrial users and 32 pct lower for utilities. German attributed the sluggish performance of natural gas to lower demand in the utility sector as a whole. "March was warmer than normal, which cut down gas consumption not only in home heating but also in electricity generation," he said. In March, according to API monthly statistics, residual fuel deliveries fell by 13.6 pct to 1.2 mln barrels per day from the same period a year ago. While API specifically mentioned lower natural gas prices had put residual fuel at a price disadvantage among electric utilities and industrial users, industry analysts believed the role of natural gas was over-stated. Makovich of DRI noted much of the decline in oil in the fuel mix was taken up by new nuclear capacity coming on stream in the last few years. Nuclear capacity rose nine pct in 1986, and he projected the same rate of growth for 1987 and 11 pct growth in 1988. In contrast, oil and gas together represented only 15 pct of the fuel mix in 1986 and should decline to 13 pct by 1989, he said. Within this sector, gas share fell to 66 pct in 1986 from 76 pct a year ago due to competition from falling oil prices, he added. But this year, gas was expected to recapture only two pct of the share, Makovich said. Michael German of AGA agreed and said, "Nevertheless, outlet for several hundred billion cubic feet of gas a year is significant in a glutted market." Reuter 
REAGAN WARNS ON FURTHER DOLLAR FALL

President Reagan said a further decline in the value of the dollar could be counterproductive. In written answers to questions put by Japan's Asahi Shimbun newspaper, he noted Treasury Secretary James Baker had said all seven major industrial nations were committed to cooperating in fostering stability of exchange rates. "We all believe a further decline of the dollar could be counterproductive," Reagan said. Reagan said the best way for the United States to reduce its trade deficit was to export more. He said Japan could make a major contribution to reducing external imbalances and sustaining world economic growth by adopting policies to promote stronger domestic demand in the short-run and, in the long-run, implementing structural reforms to ease Japanese dependence on exports as a source of growth. Reuter 
BANGLADESH AUTHORIZED TO BUY PL 480 COTTON-USDA

Bangladesh has been authorized to purchase about 32,000 bales (480 lbs) of U.S. cotton under an existing PL 480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It may buy the cotton, valued at 10.0 mln dlrs, between May 6 and August 15, 1987 and ship it by September 15, the department said. Reuter 
COASTAL <CGP>, TRANSAMERICAN SETTLE GAS DISPUTE

Coastal Corp and TransAmerican Natural Gas Corp have proposed settling more than four billion dlrs in lawsuits with an agreement for natural gas sales and transportation between the two Texas firms, a lawyer for Coastal said. The proposed settlement also provided for Coastal to withdraw its reorganization plan in TransAmerican's bankruptcy proceedings. Thomas McDade, a lawyer for Coastal, said the settlement included a five-year agreement for TransAmerican to transport up to 100 mln cubic feet of natural gas daily from south Texas fields to major pipeline interchanges. TransAmerican will also sell Coastal up to 125 mln cubic feet of gas at spot market prices during the next 10 years. McDade said Coastal would agree to support TransAmerican's plan of reorganization pending in federal bankruptcy court. TransAmerican, a Houston-based natural gas production and pipeline company, had sued Coastal for 4.1 billion dlrs alleging that Coastal chairman Oscar Wyatt wrongly interfered with TransAmerican's reorganization efforts. Coastal is one of TransAmerican's unsecured creditors. Reuter 
NY MEAT CUTTERS UNION REJECTS LATEST OFFER

Members of local 174 of the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) union, representing 1,900 meat cutters in New York city, yesterday rejected the latest management offer on a new contract. "Members rejected the latest offer by a 2 to 1 margin," Bob Wilson, executive officer of local 174 said. But workers have been asked to remain on the job while negotiations continue. The union has been in negotiations with the Greater New York Association of Meat and Poultry Dealers, a group of meat wholesalers and distributors. The contract expired April 26 and the latest management offer sought "give backs" in holiday and sick leave which the membership rejected, Wilson said. Reuter 
GENRAD <GEN> DECLINES COMMENT ON ACTIVITY - NYSE

The New York Stock Exchange said Genrad Inc declined to comment on what the exchange called unusual activity in its stock today. The exchange said that in view of the unusual market activity of Genrad stock it requested the company issue a public statement indicating whether there are any corporate developments. The company said its policy is not to comment on unusual market activity or rumors, the Exchange said. Genrad stock closed at 12-1/2, up 1-1/4. Reuter 
RECENT U.S. OIL DEMAND UP 0.6 PCT FROM YEAR AGO

U.S. oil demand as measured by products supplied rose 0.6 pct in the four weeks ended April 17 to 15.91 mln barrels per day (bpd) from 15.82 mln in the same period a year ago, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said. In its weekly petroleum status report, the Energy Department agency said distillate demand was off 10.2 pct in the period to 2.67 mln bpd from 2.98 mln a year earlier. Gasoline demand averaged 6.94 mln bpd, off 1.8 pct from 7.06 mln last year, while residual fuel demand was 1.17 mln bpd, off 12.9 pct from 1.34 mln, the EIA said. Domestic crude oil production was estimated at 8.36 mln bpd, down 5.9 pct from 8.88 mln a year ago, and gross daily crude imports (excluding those for the SPR) averaged 3.70 mln bpd, up 5.2 pct from 3.52 mln, the EIA said. Refinery crude runs in the four weeks were 12.58 mln bpd, up 2.0 pct from 12.33 mln a year earlier, it said. In the first 113 days of the year, refinery runs were up 2.3 pct to an average 12.36 mln bpd from 12.09 mln in the year-ago period, the EIA said. Year-to-date demand for all petroleum products averaged 16.26 mln bpd, up 1.6 pct from 15.99 mln in 1986, it said. So far this year, distillate demand fell 3.1 pct to 3.11 mln bpd from 3.21 mln in 1986, gasoline demand was 6.71 mln bpd, off 0.3 pct from 6.73 mln, and residual fuel demand fell 6.2 pct to 1.32 mln bpd from 1.40 mln, the EIA said. Year-to-date domestic crude output was estimated at 8.38 mln bpd, off 7.4 pct from 9.05 mln a year ago, while gross crude imports averaged 3.86 mln bpd, up 21.1 pct from 3.19 mln, it said. Reuter 
SENIOR ECONOMIST PREDICTS 30 PCT FALL IN DOLLAR

a senior economist predicted the u.s. dollar would decline another 30 pct by year-end, but said he foresees no significant change in u.s. interest rates. "the market recognizes another 30 pct dollar depreciation is necessary," said rudiger dornbush of the massachusetts institute of technology. he said the only thing preventing the dollar from dropping far below current levels was intervention by central banks in definace of market forces. he said artifical support of the dollar had put the world's financial markets in an "excessively volatile" position, however, and predicted that within about four months "it is going to be very difficult to keep the dollar in place." the forecasts, dornbush added, are for "a steady deterioration from now on." dornbush, a university of chicago-educated economist, works with the national bureau of economic research as well as mit. he spoke here at the invitation of panama's national banking association, sponsor of a three-day international banking convention that got under way yesterday. dornbush discarded fears of soaring u.s. interest rates because of the declining dollar. "the u.s. cannot raise interest rates. if it raises interest rates all the debts will bounce in the foreign sector ... and all over latin america," he said. Reuter 
CHINESE OFFICIALS SAY DRILLING OUTLOOK BRIGHT

China's oil drilling industry is one of the few bright spots in the international oilpatch with about 1,000 rigs currently working and annual increases of 80-100 expected through the end of the century, a Chinese petroleum official said. "In China, production concentrates on the domestic market, and does not depend on the international price of oil," Zhai Guang Ming, a director of the Chinese Ministry of Petroleum, told Reuters. Chinese oil sold within the nation's borders is priced at about one-third the 18 dlr a barrel benchmark price established by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Zhai said in an interview at the World Petroleum Congress. The optimism in China is in sharp contrast to the United States where weak oil prices have prompted a steep fall in the number of active rigs from a 1981 peak of 4,500 to only 765 last week according to the latest Baker Hughes Co rig count. At this time, China actually has more rigs in operation than any other country in the world, said Xianglin Hou, another member of the 20-man Chinese delegation at the Houston meeting. But this does not mean good news for the sagging oilfield equipment industry in the rest of the world, said Bryan Walman, international sales manager for Reed Tool Co in Houston. Walman said more than 90 pct of China's drilling activity is on land and under the control of the Chinese government which requires local manufacture of drilling equipment. But U.S. and other western nations do provide equipment for China's fledgling offshore projects as well as participate in the actual drilling, he said. Amoco Corp <AN>, for example, has reported a discovery in 1,000 feet of water in the South China Sea. "We're encouraged," said Alfred Munk, manager of Amoco's foreign affairs, "but we need substantial reserves before we can do commercial production in a remote area like that." Zhai estimated that current Chinese oil production of 130 mln tonnes a year should rise to total 200 mln tonnes annually by the year 2,000. Chinese crude reserves total 23.6 billion barrels, with ultimate resources estimated at 69.3 billion barrels. Reuter 
U.S. INTERIOR SECRETARY OPPOSES OIL IMPORT FEE

U.S. Interior Secretary Donald Hodel said he does not support an oil import fee as a means to stimulate domestic oil and gas production. "I am an advocate for incentives for exploration," Hodel said, but added, "I do not favor an oil import fee." "It would inject the federal government so deeply back in to the process, we would never get the government out again, and I think that would be in the long term disinterest of the nation," Hodel said in an address to a group of local business executives. Earlier today, Congressmen from oil producing states introduced a bill that would impose a fee on oil imports. Hodel said he supports drilling incentives, such as repeal of the Windfall Profits Tax and Fuel Use Act and deregulation of natural gas. The secretary also said oil and gas exploration offshore California and in the Artic National Wildlife Refuge is necessary to prevent the U.S. from becoming too dependent on foreign supplies of oil for its energy needs. Failure to approve such exploration, Hodel said, would lead to greater U.S. dependence on foreign sources of oil. "In the next two to five years, no matter what we do today, we are very likely to find the U.S becoming 50 pct or more dependent on imports for its oil requirements," Hodel said. If OPEC were to raise oil prices sharply, Congress would likely act to have the federal government fix gasoline prices and allocate supplies, Hodel said. "If they allocate supplies you and I, in the same two-to-five year time frame, could well find ourselves sitting back in gas lines," Hodel said. Exploration for oil and gas in offshore areas and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge would not jeopardize environmentally sensitive areas, Hodel said. "We are convinced we can meet and resolve every environmental concern that is raised," Hodel said. Reuter 
FTC FINDS 17 BILLION DLR COST IN OIL IMPORT FEE

An oil import fee could cost consumers nearly 17 billion dlrs a year and undermine long-term U.S. energy security by leading to a quicker depletion of domestic reserves, a Federal Trade Commission study said. The study by the FTC's bureau of economics found that a five dlr a barrel tariff on crude oil and gasoline oil imports would increase costs to consumers by 14 to 16.7 billion dlrs a year. After weighing the benefits of such a tariff against the costs, the study found a five dlr a barrel import fee would have a net cost to the economy of 3.6 billion dlrs a year. Several oil import fee proposals ranging from two to 10 dlrs a barrel have been made in Congress in an effort to cut the federal budget deficit and maintain the momentum for energy conservation programs, which have been hurt by cheaper oil. But by making foreign oil more expensive, the tariffs would reduce oil imports and force greater consumption of domestic oil, which would deplete U.S. reserves faster, the study found. "Any attempt to increase our energy security by limiting imports will actually reduce our long-run energy security by speeding the depletion of domestic reserves," the study said. The five dlr a barrel tariff would also cut domestic petroleum refiners' profits by 7.5 to 10 billion dlrs a year, increase domestic crude oil producers' profits by about 13 billion dlrs a year and raise government revenues by 6.7 to 8.2 billion dlrs a year, the FTC said. Under the Reagan administration, the FTC has consistently opposed government regulation of the oil industry at the state and federal levels. "This study backs up my belief that government regulation and interference with competition hurt both the market and consumers," FTC Chairman Daniel Oliver said in a statement. Reuter 
OFFSHORE OIL INDUSTRY WAITING FOR TURNAROUND

The depressed offshore oil industry is still waiting for a turnaround despite increasing optimisim that world oil prices have stabilized around 18 dlrs a barrel. "The perception of a turnaround comes from the change in prices," Charles Siess Jr, vice chairman of Marathon Manufacturing Co, a subsidiary of USX Corp <X>, and chairman of the National Ocean Industries Association, said in a press briefing at the Offshore Technology Conference. "From the level of industry activity, there is no turnaround," he added. John Huff, president of Oceaneering International Inc <OCER>, was slightly more optimistic. "We are through the low part of the cycle -- there's an increase in interest for projects," he said, adding, "whether it comes to orders, who knows?" The oil industry is recovering from last year's dramatic fall in oil prices, from 30 dlrs a barrel in late 1985 to under 10 dlrs in mid-1986. Particularly hard hit were the service companies that provide the oil rigs with keys products, such as pipe and tools. Earlier in the week, Secretary the Interior Donald Hodel announced -- at the Conference -- the government's new five-year offshore oil and gas leasing program, proposing 38 sales, including tracts in the Gulf Coast, offshore California and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. For the most part, the industry was disappointed with the plan, with most arguing that additional areas should have been included. At the same time, most were supportive of Hodel. Environmental concerns, particularly in California, had lobbied strenuously against offshore oil development. "The (Outer Continental Shelf) leasing program fails to take into account the environmental performance of the oil industry," said Bill Bradford, executive vice president of Dresser Industries <DI> and president of the Petroleum Equipment Suppliers Association. Huff quoted National Academy of Science figures showing offshore rigs contributed only two pct of petroleum pollution in the oceans, while tankers were responsible for 47 pct and municiple dumping 31 pct. "The OCS is the keystone of the domestic reserve development program," said Siess, adding that with oil imports rising to 50 pct of U.S. oil consumption, the issue was one of national security. Looking ahead, Constantine S. Nicandros, president of Dupont's <DD> Conoco Inc subsidiary, said, "We are more likely to see a five pct increase in spending this year than the widely-forecast five pct decrease." Other optimistic signs include the recent sale in New Orleans of offshore tracts in the Gulf of Mexico which raised 290 mln dlrs against an expected 90 mln. However, Ronald Tappmeyer, vice chairman of Reading and Bates Drilling Co <RB>, said the oversupply of rigs would continue for the near-term, but added demand for technologically advanced rigs would increase in the 1990s. Much of that demand is seen coming from the move into icreasingly deeper waters, with the projects becoming ever more expensive and needing five to ten years to develop. Over 50 pct of the sales in New Orleans were for deep water tracts. Ronald L. Geer, a consultant with Shell Oil Co, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell <RD>, and president of the Marine Technology Society, said the technology existed to drill exploratory wells in up to 10,000 feet of water. Geer said the industry was particularly interested in the Green Canyon field offshore Louisiana where a number of companies, including Shell, Conoco, USX Corp's Marathon Oil Co, Standard Oil Co <SRD> and Placid Oil Co, are working, many of them testing new deep-water technologies involving floating platforms. Reuter 
SEOUL ANNOUNCES MORE TARIFF CUTS FOR U.S.

South Korea will cut import taxes on 50 items, including construction equipment, photographic film, cigarettes and pipe tobacco, to help reduce its trade surplus with the United States, the finance ministry said. The tariff cuts, of between five and 30 percentage points, take effect on July 1. This brings to 157 the number of goods on which import taxes have been cut this year, a ministry official said. The 157 are among about 290 items on which Washington has asked Seoul to lower tariffs, he added. Today's announcement follows Saturday's removal of import curbs on 170 products. For 46 of those products, the U.S. Had had sought free access to the South Korean market. "This is in line with the government's policy to limit our trade surplus with the United States to help reduce trade friction between the two countries," the official said. South Korea's trade surplus with the U.S. Rose to 7.3 billion dlrs in 1986 from 4.3 billion in 1985. Officials said the surplus was expected to widen further in 1987 but Seoul would try to hold it below eight billion dlrs. The finance ministry said tariffs would be cut later this month on a further 53 items, including acrylic yarn and ethylene, by an average 7.7 percentage points in order to check inflation. The officials said the tariff cuts would contribute to holding wholesale and consumer price rises at less than three pct this year. REUTER 
U.S. STUDY SAYS TARIFFS AND QUOTAS COULD BACKFIRE

The use of tariffs and quotas to reduce the flow of foreign goods into the United States will do little to cut the nation's swelling trade deficit, a government study said. In fact, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) report said, such protectionist policies could make U.S. Products less competitive in the world marketplace by raising the cost of imported products that are re-exported in different forms. "Such policies are much more likely to hurt, rather than help, the productive capabilities of the U.S. Economy," it said. The 218-page report, written by FTC economists John Hilke and Philip Nelson, blamed the rising trade shortfall, which climbed to a record 166.3 billion dlrs last year, on shifting currency exchange rates and growing U.S consumer demand. Other factors commonly blamed for the deficit, such as foreign trade practices, deteriorating U.S. Industrial competitiveness, high labour costs and government restrictions on mergers, added little to the problem, it said. "Although each industry's competitiveness affects the level of imports and exports in that industry, in general we find that there have been no significant industry-specific changes affecting competitiveness that would explain the increase in the overall trade deficit," the study said. "To the extent any government action is needed to deal with the trade deficits, policies should focus on economy-wide phenomena such as exchange rates and relative economic growth," the FTC study said. Supporting its conclusion that broad-based economic shifts were the cause of the increase in the trade deficit, the report said it found that nearly all U.S. Industries lost some domestic market share to foreign competitors in the 1980s. It also said it found a "fairly direct relationship" between the increased trade deficit and the influence of shifting currency exchange rates, U.S. Economic growth and domestic demand for goods and services, which has outpaced foreign consumer demand. The study examined seven factors which have been commonly blamed for the trade deficit: foreign government subsidies and trade barriers to protect foreign industries, a lack of investment in U.S. Industry, declining research and development in U.S. Industry, high labour costs, union work rules, the oil prices rises of the 1970s and U.S. Antitrust regulations. In each case, the study found little or no evidence that the factor had any impact on the trade deficit. REUTER 
SEOUL ANNOUNCES MORE TARIFF CUTS FOR U.S.

South Korea will cut import taxes on 50 goods, including construction equipment, cigarettes and tobacco, to help reduce its trade surplus with the United States, the Finance Ministry said today. The tariff cuts of between five and 30 pct will take effect on July 1. South Korea ran a trade surplus of 7.3 billion dlrs with Washington in 1986, sharply up from 4.3 billion in 1985. Today's announcement brings to 157 the number of goods for which similar measures were taken this year, a ministry official said. The 157 are among about 290 items on which Washington has asked Seoul to lower tariffs. "This is in line with the government's policy to limit our trade surplus with the United States to help reduce trade friction between the two countries," said the official. Reuter 
TOWN AND COUNTRY CHANGES NASDAQ SYMBOL

Town and Country Jewelry Manufacturing Corp said effective today its NASDAQ ticker symbol has been changed to <TCJCA.O> from <TJCA.O> Reuter 
SAUDI RENEGOTIATION OF ARAMCO DEAL MOVING ALONG

Saudi Arabia's renegotiation of its collective agreement with Aramco to purchase oil for the latter's ex-partners is moving along and should lead to a fundamental structural change in the contract, oil industry sources said. Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, in this Monday's edition, said negotiations are moving along for adjustment of the 1.34 mln bpd joint long term agreement at official prices and volumes and other terms may be rearranged. The agreement signed in January for the months from February to June is up for renegotiation. Under the January contract Aramco was to purchase 1.34 mln bpd for the four partners allocated among them as Exxon Corp <XON> 440,000 bpd, Texaco Inc <TX> 350,000 bpd, Mobil Corp <MOB> and Chevron Corp <CHV> 550,000 bpd between them. But an overlifting by Texaco Inc in the first quarter allowed other companies like Exxon Corp to underlift its obligations under the contract PIW said that that one alternative under consideration is to revert to four individual contracts rather than a collective agrement. John Lichtblau, director of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation Inc said that renegotiation of the pact was more of a formality as the Saudis have each company on a separate schedule although separate agreements with the companies would favor one on one negotiations and ensure that contracted liftings occur . "The companies will probably follow the Saudi wants within limits as they do not want to antagonize them for the long haul," he said. Lichtblau said that the renegotiations would most likely concentrate on volume rather than price. Saudi displeasure with the agreement has long been noted and in April industry publications said that renegotiation were being sought, a fact later confirmed by Reuters with Aramco. Aramco Corp was formerly owned by Chevron Corp <CHV>, Exxon Corp <XON>, Mobil Corp <MOB> and Texaco Inc <TX> but is now owned by Saudi Arabia which bought its assets although the ex-partners have various agreements with Saudi Arabia. Reuter 
OKLAHOMA CLEANING UP AFTER WEEK OF FLOODS, RAINS

Residents of central Oklahoma returned to their homes over the weekend after a week of heavy rains and severe flooding that left two dead and caused more than 20 mln dlrs in damage, officials said. Some 900 people were evacuated from their homes during the rains and flooding last week, civil defense officials said. Many of the shelters set up throughout the state in areas threatened by flooding, except those near the Washita and Red Rivers, closed as residents returned to their damaged homes. Farmers who had expected a near-record wheat crop now say this year will see one of the largest losses in decades. Gov. Henry Bellmon, who on Thursday declared a flooding emergency for central Oklahoma, was expected to ask President Reagan for federal disaster relief for the area. In northern Texas, officials reported several tornadoes on Friday. A twister in Lubbock yesterday damaged six mobile homes and two houses. No injuries were reported. Reuter 
THOMPSON MEDICAL <TM> PLANS STATEMENT SHORTLY

Thompson Medical Co Inc expects to release a statment in a few minutes, a company spokesman said. The New York Stock Exchange has delayed opening the stock saying news is pending. The stock closed Friday at 19-3/4. Reuter 
FLUOR <FLR> TO ASSESS VALUE OF GOLD OPERATIONS

Fluor Corp said it retained two investment bankers to assess the value of its gold operations in light of improved world gold market conditions. The engineering, construction and natural resources company said it retained Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc and S.G. Warburg and Co Inc to assist in the assessment. Fluor owns 90 pct of St. Joe Gold Corp <SJG>, a unit of Fluor's St. Joe Minerals subsidiary. St. Joe Gold explores, develops, mines and produces precious metals in the U.S., Canada and Chile. It produced 281,000 ounces of gold in its most recent fiscal year. Fluor also has gold operations in Australia, Spain and Uruguay. Reuter 
BRAMPTON BRICK <BBLA.TO> UPS EARNINGS FORECAST

Brampton Brick Ltd said it increased its 1987 earnings forecast to 94 cts a share from the 83 cts a share predicted in its October 30, 1986 public share offering prospectus. It said increased earnings will result from continuing production at its Toronto Don Valley plant past the original termination date of June 30, 1987, which will double 1987 output. In addition, annual capacity at unit Brique Citadelle was increased by about 15 pct to 48 mln bricks. The revised earnings forecast is after a May, 1987 agreement to issue 900,000 class A subordinate voting shares. Reuter 
DOW CHEMICAL <DOW> TO INCREASE PRICES

Dow Chemical U.S.A. Midland Co said it will increase prices of its high performance thermal fluids, in bulk and drums, effective July One, for contract and spot customers. The bulk list prices for diphenyl oxide, in both technical and refined grades, will be raised five pct to 1.26 dlrs per pound for technical and 1.36 dlrs per for refined, Dow said. Other increases include Dowtherm G to 21.92 dlrs per gallon; Dowtherm HT to 20.94 dlrs per gallon; Dowtherm J to 14.96 dlrs per gallon, and Dowtherm LF to 18.68 dlrs per gallon. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is expected to add reserves to the U.S. banking system by arranging a round of customer repurchase agreements during this morning's intervention period, several economists said. Some others, however, judged that the Fed has almost completed its reserve-adding requirement for the statement period ending on Wednesday and will not need to operate today. Fed funds were trading at 6-11/16 pct, compared with Friday's average of 6.63 pct. Reuter 
TWO JOIN NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET SYSTEM

CSC Industries Inc <CPSL.O> and ENZON Inc <ENZN.O> said their common stocks will be added to the National Association of Securities Dealers' NASDAQ National Market System tomorrow. Reuter 
SECOM GENERAL TO LIST ON NASDAQ

Secom General Corp said its common stock will be listed on the NASDAQ system tomorrow. Reuter 
NO DECISION YET ON RENAMING VOLCKER AT FED

The White House said President Reagan had made no decision on whether to reappoint Paul Volcker as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board when Volcker's term expires in August. "No decision has been made on chairman Volcker ... He has not discussed this with the president, and no decision has been made one way or another," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. Asked if Reagan would discuss the issue with Volcker before leaving for the Venice summit on Wednesday, Fitzwater said, "I have no idea." Reuter 
LITTLE REACTION TO COMEX PRICE LIMIT REMOVAL

The elimination of price limits on precious metals contracts trading at the Commodity Exchange in New York appears to be having little effect on the market, analysts said. "There is nothing apparent from the change," said William O'Neill, director of futures research at Elders Futures Inc. "The market has not approached the old price limits and trading is relative quiet, in narrow ranges," he added. Gold futures, which previously had a limit of 25 dlrs on market moves in most back months, were about 7.00 dlrs weaker in the nearby contracts amid thin conditions, traders said. On May 5, COMEX did away with price limits on the two contracts following spot after a volatile market in silver futures at the end of April caused severe disruptions. During the last week of April, silver futures traded up and down the price limit in the back months, causing traders to rush into the spot contract to offset those moves, analysts said. As a result, Elders' O'Neill said, there was much confusion, many unmatched trades, and large losses. The COMEX fined Elders Futures and three other large firms a total of 100,000 dlrs for failure to resolve unmatched trades in a timely manner. Silver futures were trading about 30-40 cts weaker in the nearby contracts amid quiet trading today. O'Neill said the elimination of price limits on all COMEX metals futures would add caution to trading since all contracts could move any distance. "This is amore realistic approach because the metals market is a 24 hours market and prices can move without limit," O'Neill said. Paul Cain, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers, said the elimination of price limits will cut back on panic buying or selling and contribute to more orderly markets. Reuter 
U.S. GULF OF MEXICO RIG COUNT CLIMBS TO 38.9 PCT

Utilization of offshore mobile rigs in the Gulf of Mexico climbed by 2.1 pct last week to 38.9 pct, reflecting a total of 91 working rigs, Offshore Data Services said. One year ago, the Gulf of Mexico utilization rate was 32.5 pct. Offshore Data Services said some drilling contractors had reported recent increases of about 1,000 dlrs a day on large jackup rigs, which now command rates of 11,000 to 12,000 dlrs a day. In the European/Mediterranean area the rig utilization rate rose 0.6 pct to 53.6 pct, against 67.3 pct one year ago. Worldwide rig utilization rose by 1.2 pct to 57.7 pct, reflecting a net increase of eight working rigs. Offshore Data Services said a total of 419 rigs were in use worldwide and 307 were idled last week. Reuter 
BAKER HUGHES' <BHI> U.S. RIG COUNT FALLS TO 758

The U.S. drilling rig count fell by four last week to a total of 758, against 723 working rigs at this time last year, Baker Hughes Inc said. In Canada, the weekly rig count rose 19 to 100, compared to 46 working rigs last year. Among individual states, the steepest declines were in Oklahoma and Louisiana which lost eight and seven, respectively. Drilling increases were reported by Michigan, up by five rigs, and Ohio and Pennsylvania which each rose by three. Baker Hughes said the total of 758 working rigs in the United States included 84 rigs working in offshore waters. Reuter 
U.S. TRADE BILL VERY DANGEROUS FOR CANADA, LOBBY

A trade bill before the United States House of Representatives "is a very dangerous bill for Canadian industry," Canadian Forest Industry Council chairman Adam Zimmerman told reporters. By changing the definition of subsidy under U.S. countervailing duty law, House of Representatives Bill 3 removes protection for companies that take advantage of widely used government programs, Zimmerman told a media briefing. "Clearly, any industry to which Canadian governments grant rights to fish, mine, cut timber, or produce power could be vulnerable to a finding of a subsidy under this language," he said. The Canadian forest lobby's Zimmerman also said the House of Representative Bill would adopt a new way of measuring subsidies that would greatly increase the size of any countervailing duties that might be imposed on Canadian resource exports to the U.S. Under the bill, any difference between Canadian prices and U.S. or world market prices would constitute a subsidy, he said. Such a method would make Canadian resource industries vulnerable to similar penalties like a 15 pct export tax imposed last January on shipments of Canadian softwood lumber to the U.S., Zimmerman added. Canadian negotiators agreed to levy the new tax if a U.S. forest industry lobby would drop its request for a countervail duty on imports of Canadian softwood lumber. "We represent the first victim of the move to price other countries' natural resources according to the U.S. system," Zimmerman said. "If we're an example, than other resource industries had better watch out," he added. Zimmerman said the Canadian Forest Industry Council plans to discuss concerns about the U.S. trade bill with lobby groups from other Canadian resource industries. Reuter 
GE <GE>, ALSTHOM <ALSF.PA> DEVELOPING TURBINE

General Electric Co said it and Alsthom of France are developing a 200 megawatt gas turbine that will be the most powerful combustion turbine in the world, the MS9001F. The company said when used in a combined cycle application, the power plant efficiency will exceed 50 pct. The company said it will offer the turbine exclusively for 50 hertz electrical system markets. Most of the world, except the U.S. and several other countries, use the 50 hertz system, it said. It said Alsthom, its licensee in France, is codeveloper and comanufacturer of the first unit. GE said the first of the turbines will be installed for Electricite de France's grid. Reuter 
EXPEDITERS INTERNATIONAL <EXPD.O> SEES GOOD YEAR

Expediters International of Washington Inc president John Kaiser told securities analysts business in the current quarter is good and he is looking for good results for the year. Kaiser, however, declined to make specific earnings projections. In 1986, the company reported earnings of 4.1 mln dlrs, or 73 cts a share, on sales 108.8 mln dlrs. "The second quarter looks good and it looks like we're going to have a good year," he said, citing strength in imports and exports in the Pacific Rim. Kaiser also said a pickup in electronics and computer business would help this year's results. The company is trying to get a license to operate directly in Korea before next year's Olympics, he said. It currently works through an agent there. He said four countries in the Pacific - Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan and Singapore, where the company does much if its business - should have economic growth of more than 10 pct over the next two to four years. "The Pacific Rim will still be our strongest market," he said. Reuter 
LITTLE REACTION TO REMOVAL COMEX DAILY LIMITS

The elimination of limits on daily price fluctuations for metals futures contracts traded on the Commodity Exchange, COMEX, appears to be having little effect on the market, analysts said. "There is nothing apparent from the change," said William O'Neill, director of futures research at Elders Futures Inc. "The market has not approached the old price limits and trading is relative quiet, in narrow ranges," he said. On May 5, COMEX eliminated price limits on the two contracts following each spot delivery in gold, silver, copper and aluminum futures after a review of its clearing operations, which were severely tested by a volatile market in silver futures at the end of April. COMEX announced Friday the lifting of all daily limits, effective today. Gold futures, which previously had a limit of 25 dlrs per ounce in most back months, were about 7.00 dlrs weaker in the nearby contracts amid thin volume conditions, traders said. Silver futures, previously limited at 50 cents in most back months, were trading about 30-40 cts weaker in the nearby contracts amid quiet trading today. During the last week of April, silver futures often traded at the daily allowable limit amid concerns about inflation, the dollar, and other factors. Traders rushed into the spot, or unlimited, contract to offset those moves, analysts said. As a result, O'Neill said, there was much confusion, many unmatched trades, and large losses for some traders. The COMEX fined four large firms a total of 100,000 dlrs for failure to resolve unmatched trades in a timely manner. Paul Cain, a vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers, said the elimination of price limits will cut back on panic buying or selling and contribute to more orderly markets. O'Neill added that the elimination of daily limits would add caution to trading. "This is a more realistic approach because the metals market is a 24 hours market and prices can move without limit," O'Neill said. Reuter 
LODGISTIX <LDGX.O> OPENS OFFICE IN CANADA

Lodgistix Inc said it is expanding distribution in Canada of its automated property management systems for hotel and resorts with the opening of a new ssales office in Calgary, Alberta. Reuter 
REAGAN URGES FULFILLMENT OF EXCHANGE ACCORDS

President Reagan, preparing to depart for the Venice economic summit on Wednesday, said the United States and its allies must fulfill agreements on exchange rate stability. "Economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo, and at this year's meetings of Group of 7 Finance ministers in Paris and in Washington, cannot be ignored or forgotten," he said. "The commitments made at these meetings need to be translated into action," Reagan said in a pre-summit speech celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Marshall Plan. Reuter 
ADDITIONAL CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES FOR KOREA--USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has reallocated 50.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees from the previously announced undesignated line to provide additional guarantees for sales of feedgrains, oilseeds, and wheat to South Korea, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the action increases the feed grains line by 23 mln dlrs to 63 mln, the oilseed line by seven mln dlrs to 52 mln, and the wheat guarantee line by 20 mln to 165 mln dlrs. The undesignated line is reduced to zero. The commodities are for delivery during the current fiscal year ending this September 30, it said. Reuter 
CCC INTEREST HIGHER IN JUNE, USDA SAYS

Interest rates on commodity loans disbursed by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) this month will carry a 6-7/8 pct interest rate, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. That is up from the May rate of 6-1/4 pct and reflects the interest rate charged the CCC by the U.S. Treasury in June, USDA noted. Reuter 
IDA EXTENDS 37.1 MLN DLRS IN AFRICA LOANS

The World Bank said it will provide 37.1 mln dlrs to Tanzania and Rwanda through the International Development Association (IDA), the bank's concessionary lending affiliate. Tanzania will recieve a 23 mln dlr IDA loan to help rehabilitate its telecommunications network, the bank said. The 14.1 mln dlr IDA loan to Rwanda will help finance tropical forest conservation projects and a reforestation program, the bank said. The IDA credit is for 50 years, including 10 years of grace, and carries no interest, the bank said. Reuter 
BARLEY SOLD TO SAUDI ARABIA  - USDA

Private exporters reported sales of 150,000 tonnes of barley to Saudi Arabia for delivery in the 1987/88 season, the U.S. Agriculture Deapartment said. The 1987/88 season for barley begins today. Reuter 
MAJOR U.S. OIL PIPELINE SHUT DOWN BY FLOODS

Flooding in the Red River on the Texas/Oklahoma border has shut down the Basin Pipeline, a 24-inch pipeline that transports as much as 300,000 barrels per day of sweet and sour crudes from Texas to Cushing, Okla, a Texaco Pipeline Co spokesman confirmed. "The water is rushing by so fast that we can't get any divers down to assess the damage but there is some possibility that the pipeline could be up by the end of the week," a company source said. The pipeline transmits roughly two-thirds sour crude and one-third sweet crude oil from the Midland, Texas region. Texaco sources said that if the pipeline service is restored by Friday there would be little problem in restoring oil which has been lost to the flood. "But if the pipeline is down more than 10 days it will be difficult to make up without prorationing and we would not like to proration this pipeline, if we don't have to." The Basin Pipeline is jointly owned by Atlantic Richfield Corp <ARC>, Shell Oil Co, a subsidiary of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> and Texaco Inc <TX>, which is the pipeline's operator. Peter Beutel, analyst at Elders Futures Inc, said crude oil futures contracts on New York Mercantile Exchange rose to new highs this afternoon following news of the pipeline break. July crude futures of West Texas Intermediate traded up to 19.60 dlrs a barrel, a rise of more than 20 cts. Cash market prices also firmed on the news with sellers of WTI raising offers to 19.60 dlrs a barrel. Sour crudes, which would be most affected by the pipeline shutdown, however, were slow to react to the news with West Texas Sour and Alaska North Slope holding 50 cts to one dlr a barrel below WTI, respectively. Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs at Texaco, said the company hopes to fix the pipeline in five days but that will depend on when the water level of the Red River recedes. There is already evidence that the water level is dropping and it appears the rain has stopped in the area affecting the pipeline, Stevens said. He said the segment of the pipeline that was damaged was underground and at a distance from the Red River that flooded. The pipeline runs over the Red River and under the subsoil nearby, according to Stevens. He said some of this subsoil was apparently washed away. The potential for environmental damage is being downplayed at this time despite the volume of oil that runs through this line. Texaco's Stevens said that aerial surveillance has not found any crude on the water in the river or in Lake Texoma, which is nearby. Reuter 
CONGRESSMAN SAYS U.S. UNPREPARED FOR OIL CUTOFF

Rep. Mike Synar said today that while President Reagan is ready to use military force to protect Kuwait tankers in the Gulf, the United States is ill-prepared at home to deal with a new energy crisis. Synar, Democrat of Oklahoma, made his remarks in comments on a study by the General Accounting Office (GAO) on the U.S. participation in the 1985 test of the emergency oil sharing program of the International Energy Agency. The IEA, an alliance of 21 oil consuming countries, was formed after the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo to find ways to deal with any future oil cutoff. Synar said, "the president is prepared to take military action to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers but has been unwilling to take less dangerous, equally-important action to prepare our nation for the next energy crisis." Reagan said the U.S. military would protect Kuwaiti oilers to assure the West of a continuing supply of Middle East oil, increasingly being threatened by the Iranian-Iraqi war. Synar, who asked for the GAO report after criticism of U.S. action in a previous IEA test, said the United States successfully advocated a test limited to training participants in oil sharing procedures and the system's mechanical aspects. Reuter 
TOTAL PETROLEUM <TPN> SHUTS TEXAS PIPELINES

Total Petroleum NA <TPN> shut down several small crude oil pipelines operating near the Texas/Oklahoma border last Friday as a precaution against damage from local flooding, according to Gary Zollinger, manager of operations. Total shut a 12-inch line that runs across the Ouachita River from Wynnewood to Ardmore with a capacity of 62,000 bpd as well as several smaller pipelines a few inches wide with capacities of several thousand bpd or less, Zollinger said. The Basin Pipeline, a major pipeline running 300,000 bpd, run by a consortium of other oil companies, was closed today. One other small pipeline that Total also closed has a capacity of 3,000 to 4,000 bpd and crosses the Red River in Fargo, Texas, Zollinger said. He said the closed pipelines run under river water and could be damaged as the flooded rivers erode the river banks and expose the piping. Zollinger said Total is waiting for the river waters to recede before they reactivate the pipelines. Reuter 
DOE REACHES PROPOSED OIL SETTLEMENTS

The Energy Department said it reached proposed oil pricing settlements totaling 680,150 dlrs with the operator and four working interest owners of A.D. LeBlanc No. 1 well, Vermillion Parish, La. Trigon Exploration Co., Inc operated the well from June 1979 to January 1981 for D. Bryan Ferguson, C. William Rogers, Omni Drilling Partnership No 1978-2 and Entex Inc. DOE alleged Trigon caused overcharges of 624,208 dlrs by improperly classifying its oil as "newly discovered crude," a classification that allowed charging higher prices during a period of price controls. It said the proposed settlements would resolve disputes over possible violations by the five parties. DOE added that in agreeing to the settlements, the five did not admit any violations or non-compliance with its regulations. It said it would receive written comments on the settlements before making it final. reuter 
CME PROPOSES NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE FUTURES

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) has proposed a futures contract based on the Nikkei Stock Average, a price-weighted index of 225 stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, federal regulators said. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) said CME's proposed contract is designed to be used as a hedging tool for dealers and investors in Japanese equities. The contract's unit of trading would be 500 Japanese yen times the Nikkei index, CFTC said. The minimum price fluctuation would be 2,500 yen, with no daily price limits. Public comment on the proposal is due by July 28. Reuter 
CME PROPOSES NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE FUTURES

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) has proposed a futures contract based on the Nikkei Stock Average, a price-weighted index of 225 stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, federal regulators said. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) said CME's proposed contract is designed to be used as a hedging tool for dealers and investors in Japanese equities. The contract's unit of trading would be 500 Japanese yen times the Nikkei index, CFTC said. The minimum price fluctuation would be 2,500 yen, with no daily price limits. Public comment on the proposal is due by July 28. Reuter 
GERHARD LASKE APPOINTED TREASURER OF IMF

Gerhard Laske, a national of West Germany, has been appointed treasurer of the International Monetary Fund, succeeding Walter Habermeier, who took early retirement, the agency said. Laske, 59, held a senior position at the Bundesbank in the Department for International Organizations. Prior to that, he was executive director for Germany. REUTER 
NPPC APPEAL ON CANADIAN PORK DISMISSED

The U.S. Court of International Trade has upheld the International Trade Commission's refusal to extend countervailing duties on Canadian hogs to include pork products, the National Pork Producers' Council said. The court's ruling came in an appeal to the Trade Commission's decision filed by the Pork Producers' Council. Council president Tom Miller said he was disappointed by the court ruling and said the council will accelerate activities in support of an amendment to the 1930 Tariff Act that would address the objections outlined in the Trade Commission's ruling. The Commission had said there was insufficient economic integration between the pork production industry and the pork packing industry to justify extending the duty on live hogs to fresh, chilled or frozen pork. The legislation has already passed the House of Representatives and recently passed the Senate Finance Committee. It is expected to be considered by the full Senate by the end of the summer. An appeal by the Canadian Pork Council that the current countervailing duty on Canadian hogs entering the U.S. be lifted is pending before the Court. Reuter 
LTV <QLTV> TO NEGOTIATE WITH STEELWORKERS

LTV Corp's LTV Steel Corp said it agreed to resume negotiations with the United Steelworkers of America at the local plant levels, to discuss those provisions of its proposal that require local implementation. The local steelworker union narrowly rejected a tentative agreement with the company on May 14, it said. LTV also said it agreed to reopen its offer contained in the tentative agreement reached with the union's negotiating committee as part of a plan to resolve problems through local discussions. Reuter 
U.S. TRADE DATA SEEN AS KEY TO DOLLAR TREND

The dollar's recent signs of stability have raised hopes that its 27-month decline may be nearly over, but most currency analysts refuse to commit themselves until after the June 12 release of U.S. trade data for April. "The trade data will be a deciding factor to see if the dollar has bottomed out," said Jim McGroarty of Discount Corp. Since February 1985, the dollar has nearly halved its value against the yen and the mark as part of an officially orchestrated campaign to make U.S. goods more competitive on world markets and redress gaping world trade imbalances. On April 27, the dollar fell to a 40-year low of 137.25 yen but has enjoyed a modest recovery over the last few weeks, topping 145 yen today for the first time in nearly two months. Many economists now believe that the dollar has fallen far enough to ease the trade deficit's drag on the U.S. economy. The U.S. trade gap narrowed to 13.6 billion dlrs in March from 15.1 billion in February and is expected to show continued improvement in April in volume, if not in real, terms. Keiichi Udagawa of Bank of Tokyo in New York said that if further progress is reported, the dollar would head back up towards 150 yen. "There is growing consensus that the dollar has bottomed out for the medium term," added Tom Campbell of First National Bank of Chicago. Other factors supporting this bullish view were growing expectations that Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker would be reappointed for a third four-year term in August, Japan's larger-than-expected economic stimulus package last week and more favorably technical chart signals, analysts said. The dollar was also aided by Japan's moves to dampen speculative selling in Tokyo and by reports of active central bank intervention to support the dollar. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said last week that the U.S. monetary authorities bought more than four billion dlrs during the February-April period -- the largest amount since the dollar crisis of the late 1970's. Discount Corp's McGroarty described the Fed's intervention volume as "impressive". James O'Neill of Marine Midland Bank was not so positive, however: "the dollar has not yet bottomed out. After the trade data are released, the dollar could fall towards 1.77 marks and 140 yen." Similarly, Natsuo Okada of Sumitomo Bank in New York warned, "I don't think the dollar has bottomed out yet." Although the dollar could rise as high as 146.50 yen, Okada said market impatience about the painstakingly slow decline of the U.S. trade deficit may lead to renewed pressure. Currency analysts also warned about an unfavorable reaction to the seven-nation economic Summit on June 8 to 10 in Venice, which is likely to focus on the implementation of previous commitments rather than yield any fresh initiatives. President Reagan said today, "economic policy decisions made last year in Tokyo and at this year's meetings of Group of Seven finance ministers in Paris and Washington cannot be ignored or forgotten." "The commitments made at these meetings need to be translated into action," he added in a speech, celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Marshall aid plan for Europe. Now that Tokyo has unveiled its fiscal stimulus package, analysts expected Bonn and the dollar/mark rate to bear the brunt of U.S. calls for further action. Marine Midland's O'Neill said, "pressure will build up on Germany to take stimulative action like Japan." Some Japanese bank dealers warned that although the dollar could hold above 145 yen for some months it could also come under attack again if it seems the latest economic package is not having much impact on Japan's economy and its trade surplus. Reflecting a longer-term uncertainty, some some trust banks and Japanese insurers are keeping their short dollar positons hedged against exchange losses in their foreign portfolios, while some others have started covering those short positions, Japanese bank dealers said. Reuter 
NIXDORF PLANS TO EXPAND U.S. BUSINESS

Nixdorf Computer AG <NIXG.F> plans a sharp expansion of its activities in the United States, deputy management board chairman Arno Bohn said. He told a news conference that in the medium term Nixdorf wanted to raise its U.S. Turnover to one billion marks from a current 300 mln and aimed to employ some 5,000 people in its U.S. Operations, compared with 1,300 now. Nixdorf's world group turnover was 4.50 billion marks in 1986. Bohn said a major order last year from a U.S. Retailer was a decisive element behind current plans for expansion. Retail chain Montgomery Ward and Co Inc, a unit of Mobil Corp <MOB>, awarded a 100 mln dlr order to Nixdorf in July last year for point-of-sales computer terminals. Bohn said that by 1990 there should be a total 15,000 cash terminals and 500 computer terminals in place in all of the 290 stores of Montgomery Ward. Nixdorf has said previously that, more important than the supply of the hardware for these systems, is the fact that Nixdorf is also providing the relevant software. REUTER 
CHINA TAKES SERIOUS VIEW OF MFA EXTENSION

China took a serious view of a Multi-Fibre Agreement (MFA) protocol which it said infringed principles of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the People's Daily overseas edition said. It quoted a spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade as saying the protocol, signed on July 31 last year and which extended the MFA for five years, would affect international textile trade by broadening curbs in it. Fifty major textile trading countries adopted the new MFA last July in Geneva, limiting Third World exports of textiles to industrialised countries. The newspaper said China signed the protocol on May 31, 10 months after it was signed by other nations. A U.S. Diplomat said the U.S. And China had had months of talks on the issue, with the U.S. Saying that it would have to introduce unilateral restraints if China did not sign. He said that the new MFA pact extended controls to silk and ramie in addition to existing ones on cotton and man-made fibres. China, the world's biggest producer of ramie and a major silk producer, had flooded the U.S. Market the previous two years with goods made from both and from linen because these three categories were not under quota, the diplomat said. It had become the biggest supplier by volume, though not by value, of textiles to the U.S., With exports in the first five months of this year up by 24 pct from the same 1986 period. He estimated total 1987 textile exports would be 15 pct up on the 1986 level. Chinese customs figures show exports of textile yarn, fabrics, made-up articles and related products to the U.S. In calendar 1986 as being worth 1.314 billion yuan, up from 870 mln in 1985. The diplomat said China and the U.S. Had held two rounds of talks on drawing up a new three to five-year textile pact, to replace the present one, due to expire at the end of 1987. They involved discussion of overshipment of Chinese textiles this year to the U.S. Due to counterfeit licences, a problem the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade admitted to last week, he said, but gave no more details. REUTER 
NEW PROBLEMS FOR WORLD BANK IN DEBT STRATEGY

The World Bank, in the throes of a painful reorganization, faces new strains because of actions by Citibank and others to set aside new Latin debt reserves, financial analysts and monetary sources said. The monetary sources said the reorganization has caused some bad feelings and charges that promotions and other personnel actions have been based on personality rather than ability. It also had some effect in undermining the Bank's role in the global debt strategy, the sources said. At the center of the controversy is Bank President Barber Conable, whose reorganization efforts are getting some critical review from many Bank staff members and some member- countries including the United States. "I think if he were to do it again, he would do it very differently," said one source. Conable, a former congressman from New York appointed by President Reagan to the senior most position at the Bank nearly a year ago, has taken the view that the Bank badly needed to be reorganized and perhaps made more streamlined. In this he had the backing of many in the Reagan administration who viewed the Bank as a bloated and inefficient bureaucracy that gave money to countries when other free-market sources of assistance were available. However, the Bank had been singled out for a much greater role under the U.S. debt initiative proposed by Treasury Secretary James Baker. That strategy, which called for some 20 billion dlrs in new funding from the commerical banks and nine billion dlrs in spending from the development banks, mostly the World Bank, came under profound doubt with the decision by Citibank and Chase Manhattan to set aside new reserves. This move, heralded by some sources as a measure that gives all parties more time, frightened others, who see it as the beginning of a tit for tat exercise that could lead to complete unraveling of the monetary system. As envisioned by the latter, the next move would be for Brazil, which has delayed payments on its debts, to say it does not intend to pay interest for a very long period of time. Citibank and other banks could then decide to stop financing the country's export credits, the funds countries use to support their daily activities, leading to an economic breakdown. "Within six weeks alot of countries could be out of business," said one source. Citibank's initial step last month was to set some three billion dlrs in a general reserve for potential losses on loans to developing countries. It was followed by a similar move by Chase Manhattan some days later. In the best of all worlds, the kind of cooperation that was demonstrated between the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the multilateral development banks, the wealthy countries and commercial banks when the debt crisis surfaced in 1982, could emerge again but no one is expecting that. If anything, the negotiations have become much more confrontational with the debtor countries pressing for more concessions, arguing that they face growing political instability if they are asked to do or pay more. They are very critical of the IMF's austerity measures and there is sympathy for their view among the development community. "When you hear code words like structural adjustment and tightening your belt. What that means is that the poor peasent making 700 dlrs a year should drop it to 500 dlrs," says one source. He adds: "And when your hear they should have market forces at play, that means the level of public services should drop." It had been hoped that giving the World Bank a greater role in the debt strategy might defuse the growing resistance in the debtor countries to measures that increased already prevalent poverty even further. The Bank, which primarily assists countries in the building of roads, sewerage systems, education, and other so-called infrastructure, is viewed in the Third World as benefactor. The IMF, however, which essentially forged the debt stategy following the disclosure by Mexico in 1982 that it was near default, is considered a stern taskmaster that has little sympathy or even understanding of poverty. But there are doubts about how well the Baker initiative has worked and about the World Bank's success at bringing about increased growth in the Third World under the U.S. prescription which indicated that countries might grow their way out of their difficulty. Reuter 
NYSE TO SUSPEND AND DELIST WEDTECH <WDT> ISSUES

The New York Stock Exchange said it would suspend trading in Wedtech Corp's common stock, 13 pct convertible subordinated debentures due on June 15, 2004 and 14 pct senior subordinated notes, due August 15, 1996 before the opening of trading on June 16. Following suspension, the exchange said an application will be made to the Securities and Exchange Commission to delist the issues. The exchange said the action was taken in view of Wedtech's unsatisfactory financial condition which it said the company disclosed on April 23 and because it believed Wedtech was unable to transfer its listing to another securities martketplace. The exchange said it may at any time suspend a security if it believes that continued dealings in the security on the exchange are not advisable. Reuter 
U.S. AND SOVIETS DRAFT EUROMISSILE TREATY

U.S. And Soviet negotiators have completed the text of a draft treaty calling for the elimination of medium-range missiles in Europe, a Soviet negotiator said. "We must say that as a result of the work done at the current round the sides have drafted the first joint draft text of the treaty on medium-range missiles," Alexei Obukhov, deputy leader of the Soviet negotiating team, told reporters. He said there was still much work to be done and several areas of disagreement remained to be resolved. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS VOLCKER WILL NOT SERVE NEW TERM

President Reagan said Paul Volcker has declined to serve another term as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, the U.S. central bank. Reagan nominated economist Alan Greenspan in his place. Volcker's term expires in August. Reagan, in a brief announcement in the White House briefing room, said he accepted Volcker's decision "with great reluctance and regret." Volcker, first appointed to the Fed post by President Jimmy Carter in 1979, said "there is a time to leave and a time to come ... I have no feeling I was being pushed." Volcker, appearing with Reagan, Greenspan, and Treasury Secretary James Baker in the briefing room, said he will remain on the job until Greenspan's nomination is approved by the Senate. In a tribute to a smiling Volcker standing beside him, Greenspan told reporters that one of the departing chairman's greatest achievements was reducing inflation. "It will be up to those of us who follow him to be certain that those very hard won gains will not be lost. Assuring that will be one of my primary goals," Greenspan said. Financial markets reacted with dismay at the departure of Volcker, who has been widely credited with holding the line on inflation and seeking to maintain stability in currency values. Immediately following Reagan's announcement, the U.S. dollar weakened sharply against all major currencies and both the bond and stock markets declined. But Greenspan told reporters he thought the dollar, which has fallen sharply over the past year, has reached its low point. "There certainly is evidence in that direction," Greenspan said when reporters asked if the dollar has bottomed out. The market reaction was probably exaggerated by surprise because the announcement followed a number of published reports that the White House had decided to reappoint Volcker. Volcker's tenure at the Fed began under the cloud of major inflation under Carter with consumer prices rising more than 10 per cent annually and the prime interest rate exceeding 20 per cent. With Reagan's backing, Volcker pursued a tight money policy that cut inflation to about three per cent annually and reduced interest rates to their lowest level in nearly a decade. The tight money policies were also blamed for producing a deep recession in 1981 and 1982 that caused major political problems for Reagan. Reagan reappointed Volcker to the chairmanship in 1983. Greenspan, who heads his own Wall Street consulting firm, was chairman of President Ford's Council of Economic Advisers from September 1974 until January 1977. Greenspan, a Republican, is considered a traditional conservative economist and has been an adviser to several presidents. Reuter 
GREENSPAN SEES EVIDENCE DOLLAR FALL OVER

Newly-nominated Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan said there was evidence the dollar finally had bottomed out. In a White House briefing Greenspan was asked by reporters if he thought the dollar had bottomed out. "There certainly is evidence in that direction," he replied. Reuter 
MERIDIAN INSURANCE <MIGI.O> IN NASDAQ EXPANSION

Meridian Insurance Group Inc said its common stock has been included in the NASDAQ National Market System, effective today. Reuter 
CHICKEN NOT MAIN SALMONELLA CAUSE, OFFICIAL SAYS

A representative of the poultry industry said statistics showed that chicken is less frequently the cause of salmonella poisoning than beef, dairy products or salads and other mixed foods. Kenneth May, President of Holly Farms Poultry Industries and a director of the National Broiler Council, told a House Agriculture subcommittee the incidence of salmonella in chicken has not increased in recent years and that chicken is neither the major source of the bacterial poisoning nor the cause of an increase in outbreaks of the disease. May said the Center for Disease Control figures showed that between 1978 and 1982, chicken was involved in four pct of all U.S. salmonellosis outbreaks, while beef accounted for ten pct of outbreaks and dairy products six pct. May said the remaining outbreaks were caused by salads and mixed food, turkey, seafood, pork, eggs and other foods. May said the chicken industry favored moving away from bird-by-bird inspection procedures to a risk assessment system better able to identify microbial and bacterial contamination of poultry. However, Ellen Haas, executive director of Public Voice for Food and Health Policy, said bird-by-bird inspection should be retained and labels should be attached to each ready-to-cook chicken to remind consumers about preparation procedures necessary to avoid illness. Haas also called for a review of present chicken industry inspection methods that she said can worsen poultry hazards. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PANEL VOTES TO SPEED UP CORN PAYMENTS

The House Agriculture Committee voted to make approximately 2.8 billion dlrs of feedgrains deficiency payments immediately instead of in the late fall. A similar measure was decisively defeated on the Senate floor last week. The bill, which passed by a voice vote, would allow so-called Findley payments to be made immediately rather than late this year. Payments for 1987-90 feedgrains crops would not be changed. Because the bill would move 2.8 billion dlrs of spending into fiscal 1987 from fiscal 1988, the measure is expected to meet stiff resistance in the full House. Reuter 
VOLCKER IN LETTER DECLINES NEW FED TERM

Following is the full text of Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker's letter to President Reagan declining reappointment to the Fed: Dear Mr. President, As the end of my term as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board approaches, you naturally have to consider an appropriate new appointment. In that connection, you will recall that, upon my reappointment as chairman in 1983, I felt unable to make a firm commitment to you or to the Congress to remain in office for a second full four-year term. Despite my reservations at the time, that term is in fact now almost finished. However, I do think, after eight years as chairman, a natural time has now come for me to return to private life as soon as reasonably convenient and consistent with an orderly transition. Consequently, I do not desire reappointment as chairman and I plan to resign as governor when a new chairman is prepared to assume office. I will be leaving with a sense of great appreciation for your unfailing courtesy to me personally. More broadly, your consistent support of the work of the Federal Reserve during a particularly challenging period for it, for the financial system, and for the economy has been critical to whatever success we have had. Without doubt, strong challenges remain for all of those involved in economic policy. In that effort, I believe the nation will continue to be well served by a strong Federal Reserve System -- a system firmly dedicated to fostering economic and financial strength and stability and able to bring to that effort a combination of sound and independent professional judgement and continuity beyond any partisan considerations. May I add, too, my personal best wishes for the remainder of your own term in office during which you have done so much to restore a sense of confidence and self-reliance among the American people. Faithfully yours, Paul A Volcker Reuter 
FED NOT EXPECTED TO TAKE MONEY MARKET ACTION

The Federal Reserve is not expected to intervene in the government securities market to add or drain reserves at its usual intervention time this morning, economists said. With the Federal funds rate trading comfortably at 6-9/16 pct, down from yesterday's 6.74 pct average, economists said the Fed did not need to take reserve management action today. Reuter 
SHEARSON ECONOMIST SAYS VOLCKER EFFECT SHORT-TERM

Alan Sinai, chief economist of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc, said news that Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker declined to accept reappointment would have only a short-term effect on financial markets. "The markets should not go into a panic," Sinai told a fixed-income conference in New York sponsored by the Institute for International Research. Sinai said he thought that Volcker was one of the best Fed governors in the country's history. Still, he predicted that the markets would calm after today's tremors. Alan Greenspan has been nominated to replace Volcker. Reuter 
SEN DOLE SAYS GREENSPAN WILL BE GOOD FED CHAIRMAN

Senate Republican Leader Robert Dole of Kansas said Alan Greenspan would be a good replacement for Paul Volcker as Federal Reserve Chairman. "While Paul Volcker's retirement is a real loss, this country is very fortunate to have a man of Alan Greenspan's caliber to take his place," Dole said in a statement. "Alan's knowledge of the economy, coupled with his experience at the top levels of government, means that the leadership of the Federal Reserve Board will be in good hands. Alan, literally, has some big shoes to fill. But I haven't any doubts he's more than equal to the task," Dole said. Reuter 
U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY SEES HIGHER OIL PRICES

Energy Secretary Donald Hodel said he expects oil prices to rise significantly by the year 2000, probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in current dollars. "I do anticipate a significant increase (by 2000). Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable," Hodel told the Senate Energy Committee. Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production through the shutdown of stripper (10 barrels a day or less) wells because of low prices was probably permanent. He said he was also concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration. Hodel urged Congress to approve oil exploration in section 1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. He said geologic condtions in the area were favorable for the discovery of oil fields equal to those in nearby Prudhoe Bay. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER SEES COORDINATION PROCESS

Treasury Secretary James Baker said the finance ministers from the group of seven industrial countries have agreed on a new process for economic coordination. He declined to be specific. Meeting with reporters to discuss the upcoming economic summit in Venice, Baker said the finance ministers will unveil the new process, a year in the development, to the heads of state at that meeting. Baker said that in cooperation with the other countries, details will not be made public. Baker said the United States hoped to get a new committment by the other industrial countries to reduce trade friction over agricultural products which he said was the major trade issue facing the global economy. He said, however, that it was not expected that any specific new program would come from the meetings. Reuter 
EX-USDA OFFICIAL URGES CHICKEN HANDLING LABELS

A former U.S. Agriculture Department official urged the department to require that packages of chicken be labeled with handling and cooking instructions to protect the public from disease. Carol Tucker Foreman, President of Foreman and Heidepriem and a former assistant secretary of agriculture for food and consumer services, told a House Agriculture subcommittee, "every hour of every day, 22 Americans become victims of chicken contaminated with salmonella." She said every two and a half weeks, an American dies of salmonellosis or complications arising from it and the incidence of poisoning from poultry has increased steadily over the past several years. Foreman said USDA should follow a National Academy of Sciences recommendation to label chicken packages to remind consumers of preparation procedures necessary to avoid illness. She urged USDA to require that birds be washed thoroughly before they are defeathered and that defeathering machines be cleaned several times a day, that birds be condemned if their intestines are punctured or there is visible fecal contamination and that chiller water be changed more often. Kenneth Blaylock, President of the American Federation of Government Employees, said a poultry industry recommendation to move away from the current bird-by-bird inspection could prove "disastrous." He said a strengthened bird-by-bird inspection with slower line speeds was the foundation upon which new inspection techniques should be overlaid. Reuter 
PROXMIRE SAYS VOLCKER RETIREMENT A LOSS FOR U.S.

Senate Banking Committee chairman William Proxmire, D-Wis, said Paul Volcker's decision to leave the Federal Reserve Board was a loss for the country. "I think it is a serious loss for the country," Proxmire said in a Senate speech. He had no comment on the nomination of Alan Greespan to replace Volcker. Proxmire's committee will hold confirmation hearings on Greenspan, but no date has been scheduled. "Mr Volcker has been a superb chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. He has the confidence of the business community. He has the confidence of the country. And I thought he had the confidence of the Administration. We are going to miss him very much." Reuter 
ST. GERMAIN REGRETS VOLCKER STEPPING DOWN

House Banking Committee chairman Fernand St. Germain, a Rhode Island Democrat, said he regretted Federal Reserve Board chairman Paul Volcker had decided not to accept a new term. "Paul Volcker has been an island of strength and stability," St. Germain said in a statement. "I deeply regret his decision," he added. "This nation has been extremely fortunate in having giants on the scene during times of crisis. Thank God, Paul Volcker was available during this period of domestic and world economic turmoil," St. Germain said. Reuter 
ENERGY SECRETARY SEES HIGHER OIL PRICES

Energy Secretary Donald Hodel said he expects oil prices to rise significantly by the year 2000, probably to around 33 dlrs a barrel in current dollars. "I do anticipate a significant increase (by 2000). Thirty-three dlrs a barrel is not unreasonable," Hodel told the Senate Energy Committee. Hodel said the loss of some domestic oil production through the shutdown of stripper (10 barrels a day or less) wells because of low prices was probably permanent. He said he was also concerned by the decline in domestic oil exploration. Hodel urged Congress to approve oil exploration in section 1002 of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. He said geologic condtions in the area were favorable for the discovery of oil fields equal to those in nearby Prudhoe Bay. "The area could contain potentially recoverable oil resources of more than 9.2 billion barrels, an amount nearly equal to the Prudhoe Bay oil field, which currently provides almost one-fifth of U.S. domestic production," Hodel said. He said production from the new section could begin about the time Prudhoe Bay production begins to decline in 2000 without endangering caribou or other wildlife in the area. Reuter 
U.S. SPEAKER FEARS HIGHER RATES UNDER GREENSPAN

U.S. House Speaker Jim Wright said he was concerned that the appointment of Alan Greenspan to succeed Paul Volcker at the Federal Reserve Board would mean interest rates would rise. Speaking to reporters, the Texas Democrat said that based of Greenspan's tenure as chairman of President Nixon's Council of Economic Advisers his policies would mean higher rates. "His previous service indicates the kind of economic policies based on the trickle down theory rather than the percolate up theory. This theory tends to higher interest rates," Wright said. Wright told reporters he would not have chosen Greenspan to head the Fed, but he declined to name his preference. "It would be someone whose primary interest is in keeping interest rates low. That is the national interest," he said. His main concern was that high interest rates have slowed economic growth and held down the number of new jobs. The United States needs "to reduce the level of interest rates so this economy can get oxygen and breathe," Wright said. Wright said he had not talked with Greenspan about the appointment. Asked to rate Volcker's tenure, he replied, "Long." Reuter 
VOLCKER DEPARTURE REVIVES DLR, INFLATION FEARS

Paul Volcker's decision not to go for a third term as Federal Reserve Chairman and the nomination of Alan Greenspan to replace him have revived deep concerns about the U.S.' ability to prevent a further dollar decline and stem rising inflation, financial market analysts said. Although Greenspan is known as a committed anti-inflation fighter in the Volcker mould, doubts are already surfacing in the U.S. financial markets as to whether he has enough political clout and monetary experience to wage a tough campaign against inflation over the next year or two. "The critical issue is how (Greenspan) will deal with inflation," said Stephen Axilrod, Vice Chairman of Nikko Securities Co International Inc and former staff director for monetary and financial policy at the Fed. "A lot of questions have been raised by Volcker's departure. Until Greenspan answers them, the markets will remain nervous," added Stephen Slifer, money market economist at Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc. This morning's announcement sent the dollar into a tailspin, which was halted only by concerted central bank intervention in the open currency market. Reuter 
SMALL RISE SEEN IN U.S. GASOLINE INVENTORIES

U.S. analysts expect the American Petroleum Institute's weekly report on oil inventories to show a slight build in U.S. stocks of gasoline for the week ended May 29, oil traders and analysts said. While the consensus is for an increase, a few would not rule out the possibility of an decline. Traders said that barring any surprises in tonight's report, they expect the report to be neutral to bearish for oil prices. Heating oil stocks are also likely to build and runs to be steady to slightly higher, which could add pressure on oil prices, the analysts said. Crude oil was seen likely to build assuming imports continue at relatively high levels. Analysts expect gasoline stocks to rise 500,000 to two mln barrels above the 234 mln reported for May 22. Peter Beutel, oil analyst with Elders Futures inc, who looks for a build said, "We have had five weeks of gasoline demand at 7.3 mln bpd or more and it is likely to taper off to between 6.7-7.0 mln bpd, which should make stocks build. Demand would have to stay above 7.0 mln bpd to have a draw," he added. Rising demand is why oil traders and analysts expect a draw in stocks of about of about one mln barrels. The U.S. Energy Information Administration in its latest report for the four weeks ending may 22 said that gasoline demand was up 4.4 pct to 7.3 mln bpd from the previous year. But analysts said hopes of reduced stocks is likely to founder on increased runs in refineries, which could be up 0.3 pct above May 22's 81.2 pct capacity operated. Such an increase would raise runs about 100,000 bpd and add to U.S. stocks. But some analysts said that refiners may have held refinery runs. Heating oil stocks were also expected to build between 700,000 barrels and one mln from the 96 mln barrel level reported last week, but a rise in distillate stocks was discounted as having a market impact at this time. "A build is seasonal now and not out of line with last year," one futures analyst said. Analysts said they also expect crude oil stocks to build between 1.5 mln barrels and three mln from the 325 mln barrels reported by API for the week of may 22. The consensus appears for about two mln barrels to be added to the nation's inventory. Reuter 
VALLEY CAPITAL <VCCN.O> IN NASDAQ EXPANSION

Valley Capital Corp said its common stock has been listed on NASDAQ's National Market System, effective today. Reuter 
GERMAN OFFICIALS HAVE NO COMMENT ON BAKER REMARK

West German officials said they could make no comment on remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker who said Group of Seven (G-7) finance ministers had agreed a new process for economic coordination. At last year's G-7 summit in Tokyo, senior government officials were requested to make a study of how economic data could be better coordinated and the results of their work will be presented at next week's summit in Venice. West Germany has said governments should not be obliged to take economic steps purely in reaction to economic data. The U.S. Position on data coordination has been that governments should react accordingly when economic indicators fall short of expectations. The West German stance on coordination of data, which has also been shared by the British government, has been a potential threat to a joint stance by the G-7 on this topic. At a news conference in Washington, Baker would not be specific about what agreement had been reached on data coordination by the seven finance ministers. REUTER 
STERLING BANCORP <STL>HAS NO COMMENT ON ACTIVITY

The New York Stock Exchange said Sterling Bancorp declined to comment on whether there are any corporate developments that would explain the unusual activity in its stock. Sterling, whose stock is up 3/8 at 14-7/8, said its policy is not to comment on unusual market activity or rumors, the Exchange said. Reuter 
UAW CHIEF DISPLEASED WITH GREENSPAN APPOINTMENT

United Automobile Workers union president Owen Bieber said he was pleased Paul Volcker is leaving as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board but not encouraged at Alan Greenspan's nomination to succeed him. "When you say Greenspan in now in view, that troubles me," the UAW leader told reporters at a news conference. Bieber, whose union has 1.1 mln members, said that with Greenspan heading the Fed, "I'm afraid it means a continuation of the same policies we've been on, which I don't think are the right policies." Reuter 
NEED FOR BIGGER ALLIED FORCE IN GULF PLAYED DOWN

Secretary of State George Shultz said today that a boost in allied forces in the Mideast Gulf was not vital to protect shipping against attack but that possible allied contributions should be examined. Asked if he saw the need for a greater military presence by the allies in the gulf, Shultz told reporters, "Not necessarily, particularly, so." But he said an adequate force was needed to deter attack and noted that the British and the French, as well as the United States, maintained naval contingents there. "We have to look at things that others might do," he said. Reuter 
KEMP PRAISES GREENSPAN VIEWS ON MONETARY REFORM

Rep. Jack Kemp, a conservative Republican from New York, praised Federal Reserve Board chairman-designate Alan Greenspan's calls for international monetary reform. "Alan Greenspan has called for a fundamental reform of the international monetary system, which is long overdue. The challenge facing Mr Greenspan is to combine a commitment to monetary reform with a policy for economic growth," Kemp said in a statement. However, Kemp said he was disappointed Fed vice-chairman Manuel Johnson was not to succeed Fed chief Paul Volcker. Reuter 
GREENSPAN SEEN AS STRONG INFLATION FIGHTER

Alan Greenspan, who has been nominated to replace Paul Volcker as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, is regarded by financial analysts as a conservative economist who will take a strong stand against inflation. "He'll be a strong fighter against inflation," said Martin Regalia, director of research and economics at the National Council of Savings Institutions. Greenspan has broad experience both in running his own private economic consulting firm - Townsend-Greenspan - and in government service. He was President Ford's top economic adviser, serving as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from September 1974 until January 1977. During that time, inflation rising above 10 percent, a was a major political concern during Ford's administration. "He's had a lot of experience with inflation, and as an inflation fighter," Richard Medley, partner with Smick-Medley and Associates, said of Greenspan. "He had that seared into his memory during that period," Medley added. Reuter 
SOYCOMPLEX COULD RALLY ON TIGHT U.S. FEED SUPPLY

Nearby months in soybean and soymeal futures could post a short-term rally on tightening supply of livestock feed, even if favorable growing conditions keep the new crop outlook bearish, traders said. "A lot of soymeal dealers are just getting very worried about where processors will get their soybeans this Summer," one Illinois soyproduct dealer said. Processors are competing vigorously with river dealers for the few soybeans being offered by country elevators, with a Decatur, Illinois processor raising its spot soybean basis bid another two cents today to 10 over July futures. Farmer marketings of old crop soybeans continue very light, with flat prices apparently well below levels they are willing to sell, dealers said. Some terminal elevator operators are coming to the belief that even if futures rally back to last month's highs, country movement may remain light because farmers in many areas are sold out of old crop soybeans, particularly in the eastern half of the Midwest. Soybean processors will continue to take seasonal downtime for maintenance if soybeans remain difficult to buy, reducing the weekly soybean crush rate still further and keeping the spot soymeal basis strong, dealers said. Futures traders said tight cash supplies should help July soybeans and soymeal gain on deferreds. July soymeal has already moved to a premium over the August through October months and old crop July/new crop November soybeans may also move to a July premium later this month, they added. Reuter 
GM <GM> PRAISES GREENSPAN APPOINTMENT

General Motors Corp said in a corporate statement its executives can think of "no person better qualified" than Alan Greenspan to replace Paul Volcker as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. "Greenspan possesses great understanding of both the American and international economies and the interaction between them," the company said in a statement. "He also possesses enormous good judgement." No other possible replacement for Paul Volcker would be more likely to have as steadying an influence on and be as well received by financial markets here and overseas as Alan Greenspan, it said. GM also said the U.S. owes Volcker "a great debt of gratitiude" by wringing inflation out of the U.S. economy." Reuter 
KAUFMAN SAYS GREENSPAN NOMINATION BAD FOR BONDS

Henry Kaufman, managing director of Salomon Brothers Inc, said the nomination of economist Alan Greenspan to replace Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker is bearish in the near term for the fixed income and currency markets. "The basic direction of interest rates is not changed. The fundamental direction of interest rates continues to be upward, interrupted by intermittent rallies," Kaufman said in a statement. He said the implication for equity markets in neutral to bullish. Kaufman said, "Unlike Paul Volcker, who entered the office of the Federal Reserve chairman with strong credibility both domestically and internationally, Mr Greenspan will have to demonstrate both his competence and policy independence before he can gain full confidence of the financial markets." Greenspan is most knowledgeable on the behavior of the U.S. economy, while his professional skills in the international area are much more limited, Kaufman noted. "Consequently, although he is well known abroad, his views on issues such as the Less Developed Country Debt may initially carry less weight than have those of Mr Volcker." Reuter 
MAJOR U.S. PIPELINE MAY BE CLOSED SEVERAL DAYS

The operator of a major U.S. crude oil pipeline, shutdown because of flood damage, said it may be several days before repairs are made and the system is functioning again. Dan Stevens, manager of public and government affairs at Texaco Inc <TX>, operator of the pipeline through its subsidiary Texaco Pipeline Co, said the company hopes repairs will begin in about five days and expects it to take several more days to complete. "At this point we are lining up what we know we need, to get the job done," Stevens said, adding that the timing for repairs will depend on the damage to the pipeline which is difficult to assess because of flooding on the Red River. The pipeline was shipping roughly 225,000 barrels of crude oil per day, or about 55 pct of its capacity during the 30 days preceding its shutdown on Saturday, Stevens said. The pipeline was shut down from Cushing, Okla, to Witchita Falls, Kan, on Saturday due to an undetermined leak at the Red River crossing, near the Oklahoma/Texas border, because of severe rains, a spokesman for Texaco said. Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine their requirements. Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices. Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel. Stevens said it was reasonable to suggest the pipeline could operate at full capacity when it reopens in order to make up for the shortfull but cautioned they will talk with customers to determine their requirements. Oil analysts and traders said they were not sure if the shutdown will continue to raise U.S. oil prices. Monday, after Texaco confirmed that the pipeline had been closed, West Texas Intermediate crude in the spot market and on New York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures complex rose 20 cts a barrel. Reuter 
FMC CORP <FMC> IN PEROXIDE VENTURE

FMC Corp said it has entered into an equally owned joint venture with Indo-Thai Synthetics called Thai Peroxide Co Ltd to build a hydrogen peroxide plant with an initial capacity of 5,000 metric tonnes of 100 pct peroxide north of Bangkok. The company said the plant is expected to starft operating by the fourth quarter of 1988. It said the venture received grants and incentives from the government of Thailand. Reuter 
OVERSEAS <OSG> SEES OPEC QUOTAS KEY TO RATES

Overseas Shipholding Group Inc president Morton Hyman said if oil production by OPEC rises during the second half of 1987, freight rates for tankers should rise accordingly. Hyman, delivering a speech at the annual shareholders meeting, said international tanker markets were generally weak throughout the first quarter, but since the end of March OPEC oil production has picked up. The result has been a modest improvement in tanker rates. Overseas said 73 pct of its fleet handles liquid cargo. He said tanker requirements decreased in September 1986 as OPEC production quotas dropped and levels of oil stocks rose. For the first quarter 1987, the company reported net income of 10.3 mln dlrs, or 40 cts per share, compared to 9.3 mln dlrs, or 36 cts per share, for the comparable quarter a year ago. The company reported net income for 1986 of 37.3 mln dlrs, or 1.45 dlrs per share. "The improvement in the company's 1986 results, after four years of declining earnings, reflects a sharp, albeit temporary, rise in freight rates in the international tanker markets last summer," Hyman said. He said the Alaskan oil trade continues to be the principal source of employment for its U.S. flag tanker fleet, which represents approximately 15 pct of the company's tonnage. Overseas owns and operates 67 vessels. Reuter 
MUELLER BRASS LOWERS PRODUCT PRICES

Mueller Brass Co said that effective with shipments today, it is adjusting the price of all brass mill products, except free-cutting brass rod and related alloys and copper water tube and related products, to reflect contained copper values at 73 cents a pound, down two cents. Reuter 
U.S. TO PROTECT ONLY AMERICAN SHIPS

U.S. military forces in the Mideast Gulf are under orders to protect only American flag vessels and occasional U.S. arms deliveries on other ships to "non-belligerent" states in the area, the Pentagon said today. "No one has ever stated or supported a policy of protecting all shipping in those waters," Pentagon spokesman Bob Sims said as the Reagan Administration drew up plans to increase the protective U.S. military presence in the gulf. Sims denied published reports that U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger sought air cover to protect all neutral shipping in the western gulf from attacks by Iran and Iraq. "As we have said repeatedly, only American flag vessels are under our protection with the exception, on a limited case-by-case basis, of ships carrying our Foreign Military Sales equipment to friendly, non-belligerent states in the region," Sims said. U.S. warships in the gulf two weeks ago protected a Kuwaiti ship which sailed to Bahrain with U.S. arms for Bahrain and Kuwait. But Sims said Washington had received assurances that the the arms would not be used elsewhere. He said Kuwait, which is turning 11 oil tankers over to U.S. firms to fly the American flag and be protected by the U.S. warships, is not considered a belligerent despite Iranian charges that Kuwait is supporting Iraq in the gulf war. Kuwaiti tankers have come under repeated Iranian attack. Sims refused to say how the United States will beef up its seven-ship Middle East Task Force in the gulf to protect the 11 Kuaiti tankers. But Pentagon officials said that additional ships and air cover are under consideration. Reuter 
TEXAS EASTERN <TEX> UNIT FILES FOR NEW RATES

Algonquin Gas Transmission Co, a unit of Texas Eastern Corp, said it has filed for Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval of new rate schedules. It said it has also filed for proposed service agreements for interruptible and firm transportation service. Algonquin said the filing would allow its customers to move available spot gas supplies to price competitive markets. Reuter 
USX <X> UNIT RAISES PRICES ON CERTAIN GRADES

USX Corp's USS division said it was raising prices for all hot rolled bar and semi-finished products 1100 series grades by 10 dlrs per ton effective July One, 1987. The company said the increase reflects current market conditions. The company could not say what percentage the increase reflects from current prices, nor could it say how much per ton the products sell for currently. Reuter 
REAGAN SEEKS ROMANIA TRADE CONCESSION

President Reagan called for continued nondiscriminatory treatment for Romanian exports to the United States in the face of congressional opposition because of the Bucharest government's record on human rights. A White House statement said Reagan's decision to press for continuation of so-called Most Favored Nation (MFN) status for Romania had been "exceptionally difficult" and came after "all options were seriously considered." But the statement said that despite concerns about human rights abuses by the Bucharest government, the president had decided that should be continued because it helped stimulate emigration from Romania and gave the United States influence on human rights practices there. The statement was issued as Reagan sent to Congress requests for one-year extensions of MFN for Romania, Hungary and China. The House of Representatives has attached to a trade bill legislation that would temporarily deny MFN for Romania pending certification by Reagan that the country had made progress on human rights. There is no controversy over continuation of MFN for Hungary and China. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON BARLEY TO SAUDI ARABIA

The Commodity Credit Corporation, CCC, has accepted bids for export bouses to cover sales of 150,000 tonnes of U.S. barley to Saudi Arabia, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The CCC accepted three bonus offers from one exporter which averaged 40.88 dlrs per tonne, it said. The barley is for delivery August 15-November 30 in three shiments of 50,000 tonnes each. The bonus awards were made to Louis Dreyfus Corporation and will be paid in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. An additional 350,000 tonnes of U.S. barley are still available to Saudi Arabia under the Export Enhancement Program initiative annnounced on May 15, 1987, it said. Reuter 
LAST-MINUTE OPPOSITION TO GULF BILL ARISES

House Speaker Jim Wright predicted passage of legislation requiring the Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its Mideast Gulf policy, but a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberals and conservatives left the bill's fate in doubt. The legislation was written in the wake of the May 17th Iraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf, which killed 37 Americans, and President Reagan's decision to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers by putting them under U.S. flags -- effectively making them American ships. Since the administration made known its reflagging plans, congressional leaders complained they had not been consulted, and some charged the policy could lead the United States into the 6 1/2-year-old war between Iran and Iraq. The House was to vote today on a bill -- supported by the Democratic and Republican congressional leadership and the administration -- which demanded a report within seven days on plans to meet the security needs of U.S. forces in the gulf. The resolution was expected to pass without controversy today in the House Foreign Affairs Committee before the full House was to take up the bill. But in a surprise move, liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans on the committee joined in an unusual alliance to oppose the resolution. Liberal Democrats said a lack of any restrictions in the bill implied consent to Reagan's policies. Reuter 
USDA SETS 0/92 PROVISION FOR SOME PRODUCERS

Some producers in the 1987 acreage reduction program may be eligible for deficiency payments on 92 pct of their enrolled acreage even though none of it is planted with wheat or other program crops, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The department said the provision of the Farm Disaster Assistance Act will be available to all eligible winter wheat producers, producers of other types of wheat who were prevented from planting their 1987 wheat crop because of a 1986 natural disaster, and all producers who operate farms with program crop acreage bases subject to flooding on 50 pct of such crop's permitted acreage. A producer who did not enroll in the 1987 acreage reduction program may become eligible by signing-up no later than July 15. Producers will be informed by the local offices when applications are being accepted, it said. The department said producers of wheat other than winter wheat may use the 0/92 option if they were preventedf from planting their intended acreage with wheat for harvest in 1987 because of any natural disasters which occured in 1986 or if the farm is located in a county approved by Farmers Home Administration for emergency loans for such disasters that occurred in 1986. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON POULTRY TO IRAQ -- USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 15,000 tonnes of frozen poultry to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The poultry is for shipment June-September and the bonus was 719.80 dlrs per tone, it said. The bonus award was made to ConAgra Poultry Co and will be paid in the form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks. The purchase completes the Export Enhancement initiative for Frozen Poultry to Iraq announced December 22, 1986. Reuter 
CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON POULTRY TO EGYPT -- USDA

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for two bonus offers to cover the sale of 10,000 tonnes of frozen poultry to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The poultry is for shipment November, 1987, through August, 1988, and the bonus was 473.99 dlrs per tonne for the frozen fryer legs. The bonuses were made to Gress Foods, Inc (5,000 tonnes), and Serva International Ltd (5,000 tonnes). The subsidies will be paid to the exporters in the form of commodities from CCC stocks. An additional 8,500 tonnes of frozen poultry remain available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced Dec 19, 1986, and Feb 27, 1987, the department said. Reuter 
PHELPS DODGE <PD> SEES STRONGER COPPER PRICES

Phelps Dodge Corp officials said good fundamentals in copper markets should lead to improving prices for the metal. In an interview with Reuters, chairman G. Robert Durham said continued strong demand and low inventories pushed prices up eight to nine pct on the New York Commodities Exchange last month. "Our customers in this country are living off the tailgates of our trucks," he said, referring to tightness of supply and strong demand. "The fundamentals are good." Asked if metal prices will continue to rise, Durham said; "All I know is, fundamentals cannot be ignored." He said copper supplies are lower than they have been for almost 20 years. Last year, copper demand was second highest on record behind 1984, he said. Phelps Dodge is the nation's largest copper company, with annual production expected to reach 500,000 tons this year. During the interview, executive vice president Douglas Yearley said he believed it was only a matter of time before the copper price rose "because there aren't that many new projects coming on, and demand, short of a major recession, will continue to grow modestly." Copper for July delivery rose more than two cts a pound to more than 69 cents in Comex trading today. A one cent a pound rise in copper prices yields 10 mln dlrs in annual earnings for Phelps Dodge, the company said. "Demand has been surprisingly good in 1987, in construction and other areas," Yearley said. New production later this year from a Bingham, Utah, mine owned by Kennecott Corp, a unit of British Petroleum Co PLC's <BP> Standard Oil Co, a mine in New Guinea and Phelps Dodge's own expanded Morenci, Ariz., mine will be offset by production shortfalls in Mexico and Zambia, he said. Durham said production costs at the New Mexico-located Chino mine will be in line with conventional copper production at the company's other mines by the fourth quarter. The company's total production costs, including depreciation but before interest and corporate expense, should be below 50 cts a pound by late 1989 or 1990, he said. Reuter 
CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES TO HAITI AMENDED

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has amended its Export Credit Guarantee Program line to Haiti to add one mln dlrs in guarantees for sales of U.S. wood products, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The action increases the value of export credit guarantees for wood products to Haiti from 1.8 to 2.8 mln dlrs and the total value of export credit guarantees authorized to Haiti for the current fiscal year for all commodities to 12.0 mln dlrs, the department said. All sales must be registered and exports completed by Sept 30, 1987, it noted. Reuter 
SWEET VICTORY <SVICC.O> CONTINUES ON NASDAQ

Sweet Victory Inc said its common stock will continue to be listed in Nasdaq via an exception from the capital and surplus requirement. The company said while it failed to meet this requirement as of April 6, 1987, it was granted a temporary exception subject to it meeting certain conditions. Reuter 
GENERAL ELECTRIC <GE> SELLS ENGINES TO BAHRAIN

General Electric Co said the Bahrain Amiri Air Force selected its engines to power 12 of its General Dynamics Corp <GD> fighter aircraft. The company did not disclose the price of the engines. The company said Bahrain was the fourth foreign nation to select the engine. The others are the Greek, Israeli and Turkish air forces, the company said. Reuter 
FED TO RELEASE U.S. APRIL CONSUMER CREDIT JUNE 5

The Federal Reserve Board said it would release April consumer instalment credit figures on Friday. No fixed time was set for the release. Consumer credit fell a seasonally adjusted 63 mln dlrs in March after rising 1.01 billion dlrs in February. Reuter 
U.S. WHEAT IN SENEGAL MARKET -- USDA

After a highly favorable reception of a trial batch of bread baked from 300 lbs of U.S. wheat flour last February, the Senegalese appear ready to take delivery of a first tranche of 10,500 tonnes of mixed U.S. wheat, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. In its report on U.S. Export Markets for U.S. Grain, the department noted Senegal had bought 100,000 tonnes of wheat under the Export Enhancement Program last November, but local opposition from millers, accustomed to French wheat, has been delaying deliveries. As a result there were a series of baking seminars as well as the trial batch, in an effort to satisfy local flour millers and convince key officials of the qualities of U.S. wheat. The department said if deliveries of U.S. wheat to Senegal remain on track, the U.S. could dominate a wheat market that had been expected to import 140,000 tonnes of mostly French wheat during the 1987/88 (July-June) season. Reuter 
VOLCKER LEAVING DESPITE REAGAN REQUESTS TO STAY

Paul Volcker's departure as Federal Reserve Board chairman came despite pleas from the Reagan administration that he stay at the helm of the U.S. central bank, U.S. officials said. "The President made it very clear that he would be very, very pleased had the chairman's decision been otherwise," Treasury Secretary James Baker said. A Reagan administration official, who asked not to be identified, said Baker too had urged Volcker repeatedly in the past several months to consider staying on as chairman. But there were no indications the administration had told Volcker that it was in the national interest for him to stay and that current global economic uncertainties required it. Associates of Volcker have assumed Volcker would only have stayed on in such circumstances. "He doesn't care a lot, emotionally, about a third term," Nikko Securities vice-chairman Stephen Alixrod, until last year a top Fed staffer, told Reuters recently. Officials are confident that newly-nominated chairman Alan Greenspan will re-establish close working relations with Baker and his credentials eventually will calm markets. One Reagan administration economic policymaker, who asked not to be named, pointed out that Baker and Greenspan worked together closely in the Ford administration. At the time, Baker was acting Secretary of Commerce and Greenspan headed the President's Council of Economic Advisers. Reagan administration officials made clear, meanwhile, that the announcement, precipitated by Volcker's unshakeable decision to quit, came in order to clear up uncertainty ahead of the Summit of leading industrial democracies in Venice. President Reagan might have been in an embarrassing position if no decision had been made by then. Volcker enjoys the respect of most top economic officials abroad, and is admired at the West German Bundesbank, and in Tokyo, despite his criticism of Japanese policies. Financial markets, possibly reflecting some of the disappointment in foreign capitals, drove the dollar sharply lower on news of his departure, prompting central bank intervention to stem the fall, dealers said. Finance Ministries and central banks of the other summit nations -- Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada -- were informed shortly before the news was announced, Baker told reporters today. Monetary sources also said one reason Volcker decided to resign was his personal financial situation and his marriage -- his wife lives in New York and did not want him to take up a second term in mid-1983. Volcker has foregone potentially million-dollar salaries to a life almost overwhelmingly devoted to public service at pay rates low relative to his financial commitments. Both these reasons at one time prompted him to consider stepping down before his second term was completed. But Volcker also hinted there might be more than personal reasons for his decision. "It was a personal decision, taking account of a lot of things, including purely personal considerations and others," he told reporters. Fed sources note Volcker's considerable unease at the lack of progress by the administration in reaching a budget deficit reduction agreement. In addition, Volcker would have faced four more years with a Board that he was less than comfortable with, monetary sources say. The other five members are Reagan appointees. What may unsettle markets, however, is the fact that the Fed governors now have only six to seven years' collective experience between them, at a time of great financial uncertainty. Analysts said that while Greenspan might well be considered as tough an inflation-fighter as Volcker, his Republican credentials could make him more of a political Fed chairman than Volcker. An administration official said Volcker was consulted on Greenspan "and very much approved of his replacement." But one analyst compared Greenspan's relationship to the administration, to whom he has been an unofficial economic adviser, with the relationship former chairman Arthur Burns had with the Nixon administration. Burns was somewhat more sympathetic to the administration viewpoint than Volcker has been, and Burns was less willing to make radical policy changes. Making clear his decision was a strong one, Volcker told reporters, "I told (Reagan) with considerable definitiveness yesterday." Administration officials said Volcker arrived at the White House yesterday afternoon with his resignation. When renominated in mid-1983, Volcker said he would probably step down within two years. Monetary sources said the departure of Donald Regan as Treasury Secretary was one factor that convinced him to stay on. Regan and Volcker clashed almost from the start of the administration. Another, these sources said, was the prospect of being able to work with Baker as Treasury Secretary to tackle the international debt crisis and deal with the then high-flying dollar. Reuter 
INVESTMENT CRUCIAL TO U.S. TEXTILE RECOVERY

With more private investment, not more protection, the U.S. textile industry could become competitive with the most modern foreign producers, analysts from two congressional agencies said today. The Office of Technology Assessment, a nonpartisan arm of Congress told a House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee hearing there was still concern for the future of parts of the U.S. textile and apparel industry, but there was more reason for optimism than a few years ago. "While textile producers are making significant investments, they could do more," OTA analyst Henry Kelly said. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the nonpartisan budget analysis arm of Congress, said federal loans or loan guarantees would be preferable options for Congress rather than increased trade protection which could lead to foreign retaliation. CBO analyst Edward Gramlich said past trade protections, first imposed in the 1950's have had only a small benefit for profits and investments of domestic firms. Trade Subcommittee chairman, Rep. Sam Gibbons, said the agencies analyses seemed to agree with his opinion against congressional approval of protectionist textile quota legislation aimed mainly at Western Europe, Japan and other Asian textile producing countries. President Reagan last year vetoed a textile protection bill but it was reintroduced in this session of Congress and is expected to be voted on in the House this year. However, approval this year is in doubt because passage of a major trade bill without specific protections for textiles showed a weakening of support for the legislation. Most U.S. producers have fallen behind other foreign producers in the use of modern textile and apparel production equipment and net imports are growing faster than the domestic markets, Kelly said. He added that private investment in the textile and clothing industry in 1983 of 0.5 pct was less than one-seventh the average manufacturing investment of 3.9 pct. Despite existing import quotas and tariffs, imports of textiles grew 26 pct in 1986 and imports of apparel grew 14 pct while U.S. production rose only 1.9 pct. "The traditional industry seems destined to be replaced by new technology, imports, or some combination of both. While the industry may not be able to compete in all domestic markets that it enjoyed twenty years ago, the results of our research indicate that portions of the domestic market can be recovered, and that exports can be expanded," Kelly said. Reuter 
REAGAN NAMES ROGERS TO NUCLEAR AGENCY

President Reagan is to nominate Kenneth Rogers, president of the Stevens Institute of Technology, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the White House said. Rogers, 58, would succeed James Asseltine for a five-year term expiring June 30, 1992. He has has been president of the Stevens Institute, in Hoboken, N.J., since 1972. He was previously acting provost and dean of faculty. Reuter 
U.S SUBCOMMITTEE APPROVES DEVELOPMENT BANK FUNDS

A House Banking subcommittee approved a bill authorizing U.S. contributions to the International Development Association, the Asian Development Fund and the Afrian Development Bank. The bill authorizes 2.875 billion dlrs as the U.S. contribution to the eighth replenishment of the International Development Association, 584.3 mln dlrs to the Asian Development Fund and 719.5 mln dlrs to buy 59,648 shares of the capital stock of the African Development Bank. The bill, which now goes to the full Banking Committee, includes an amendment opposing U.S. approval of development bank loans for commodities in surplus in the world and which are intended for export. Reuter 
TREASURY TO PUBLISH U.S. RESERVE ASSETS MONTHLY

The Treasury Department said it would release data on U.S. reserve assets on a monthly basis from now on instead of quarterly. Reserve assets are held in gold, special drawing rights with the Internatinal Monetary Fund, foreign currencies and in a U.S. reserve position in the IMF. Assets totaled 46.59 billion dlrs at the end of April, compared with 48.82 billion dlrs at the end of March, the Treasury said. Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PASSES GULF BILL DESPITE OPPOSITION

The U.S. House of Representatives approved a bill that requires the Reagan administration to provide Congress with a report on its Gulf policy but does not place any restrictions on its actions. The bill passed 305-102 -- winning a necessary two-thirds of those voting -- despite a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought to defeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislators oppose President Reagan's policies in the region. The legislation was passed in the wake of the May 17th Iraqi missile attack on the U.S. frigate Stark in the Gulf, which killed 37 Americans, and Reagan's decision to protect 11 Kuwaiti oil tankers by putting them under U.S. flags -- effectively making them American ships. The legislation -- supported by Congress' Democratic and Republican leadership as well as by the administration -- required Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger to provide a report to Congress, within seven days of enactment, on plans to protect U.S. warships and flag ships in the Persian Gulf. It did not, however, place any restrictions on the administration as it proceeds to reflag the Kuwaiti ships and thus has no immediate effect on U.S. policy. The Senate was expected to approve the legislation this week. The bill would then be sent to Reagan for signature. Supporters of the bill said passage of the bill was only a first step toward a greater congressional involvement in formulating policy. But Democratic critics said the bill did not ask the administration to address tough policy questions in the report. Reuter 
U.S. SENATE TEAM WANTS MULTINATIONAL GULF FORCE

The leaders of a U.S. Senate team probing American defense strategy in the MidEast Gulf said they favored a multinational force to keep oil flowing through the waterway. Sen. John Glenn and John Warner, in Kuwait as part of a Gulf Arab tour, said at a news conference that top officials in the area appeared ready to discuss extra facilities needed if the U.S. upgraded its defense role. The Senate team next heads for the United Arab Emirates, their last stop on a fact-finding mission prompted by Reagan administration plans to let half of Kuwait's 22-tanker fleet fly the U.S. flag. Glenn and Warner said the U.S., Britain and France, should explore the possibility of a unified Gulf force. "The American ships, the British ships, the French ships now talk to each other and all we've got to do is formalize this arrangement," Warner said. Glenn said a multinational force could be effectively deployed within 24 hours of a decision. Glenn voiced a preference for a United Nations multinational force, or failing that, an American, British, French force with cooperation from the Gulf Arab states. Warner voiced concern that the Soviet Union might use the situation in the Gulf to raise its presence. "And, unequivocally, all GCC states we have talked with, have said that would not be in the interests of the Arabian peninsula." Reuter 
ABRAMS SAYS HE "HONEST BUT WRONG"

Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams said he was "completely honest and completely wrong" when he gave assurances last October that the U .S. government was not involved in a flight by a contra supply plane downed over Nicaragua. He was being questioned by the congressional Iran-contra panel about testimony he gave to the House Foreign Affairs Committee on October 15, 1986, saying no U.S. intelligence, defense or other government official was involved in the flight. "I made those statements and I made a similar statement on October 14 to Secretary (of State George) Shultz. And every one of those statements was completely honest and completely wrong," Abrams testified. Two of the crew of the downed aircraft, operating out of El Salvador, were killed. The third, Eugene Hasenfus, was captured, tried and sentenced to 30 years' jail, but later released by the Nicaraguan authorities. Abrams -- the highest-ranking member of the administration to testify in five weeks of televised hearings -- said he did not remember how he learned that the plane had been shot down, but thought it was probably from the CIA. He said he made public statements within a couple of days that there had been no U.S. government involvement after making inquiries of the CIA, the National Security Council and the Pentagon. "Everybody said, not only then but later, that there was no U.S. government role," he said. Reuter 
PHELPS DODGE SEEKS TO DIVERSIFY MORE FROM COPPER

Phelps Dodge Corp is prepared to make another large non-copper acquisition and a deal could be struck in the near future, chairman G. Robert Durham said. Durham told Reuters the company was examining potential candidates but not yet talking with any. Any acquisition must have a different economic cycle to copper, he said. Phelps Dodge, the largest U.S. copper producer, last year paid 240 mln dlrs for Columbian Chemicals Co which makes carbon black used in rubber and tires. The purchase was part of a strategic plan to diversify and then match earnings between copper and non-copper operations. The company could spend between 250 mln and 500 mln dlrs to buy another non-copper firm, Durham said, citing 100 mln dlrs of cash and 580 mln dlrs of untapped bank credit. Reuter 
FORD <F> HAILS VOLKER, GREENSPAN

Ford Motor Co praised President Reagan's nomination of Alan Greenspan as Federal Reserve Board chairman, saying the conservative economist has a "sound record to fill the void of (Paul) Volker's departure." The number two U.S. auto maker said in a statement that Volker "took office...at the beginning of a critical time for the auto industry" and had had "a very positive impact on the U.S. economy." Reuter 
U.S. HOUSE PASSES MIDEAST GULF BILL

The House today approved a bill requiring the Reagan administration to report to Congress on its Mideast Gulf policy but not restricting its actions. The vote in favor was despite a last-minute revolt by an alliance of liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans who sought to defeat it as a signal that a growing number of legislators oppose President Reagan's policies in the region. In the Senate, a leading Republican senator, former Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Mark Hatfield of Oregon, said he would try to prevent consideration of the bill. He said he will put a so-called "hold" on the bill until he finds out whether the War Powers Act applies to protecting Kuwaiti tankers. Congressional leaders complain they were not consulted about plans to put the U.S. flag on Kuwaiti ships and some charged the policy could lead the U.S. into the Iran-Iraq war. Conservative Republicans said increasing the U.S. military obligation in the gulf would place impossible burdens on American servicemen and equipment, and warned it could lead to war. "It is a real snake pit at best and a powder keg that will blow sky-high at worst," said Wisconsin Rep. Toby Roth. Reuter 
VOLCKER LEAVES VOID ON LDC DEBT, BANKERS SAY

Paul Volcker's resignation as Federal Reserve Board chairman creates a serious leadership vacuum at a time of deep uncertainty about the future management of the third-world debt crisis, bankers said. They said Volcker did more than any other official to hold the financial system together when Mexico halted interest payments in August 1982 and has played a central role ever since. "Where is the leadership going to come from? Suddenly there's a terrible void," one New York banker said. Volcker's expertise will be all the more sorely missed because International Monetary Fund managing director Michel Camdessus is new to his job and Barber Conable is finding it hard to make a mark as World Bank president, bankers said. Moreover, Volcker's successor, Alan Greenspan, has little experience of international affairs and third world debt. "Greenspan does not have the sensitivity to these issues and the sense of understanding of their complexity that Volcker has. Volcker understands what motivates people outside the U.S. That was in his gut. Greenspan just does not have the intuitive feeling," one banker said. This banker, who has discussed debt questions with Greenspan, described his views as simplistic. But Robert Hormats of Goldman, Sachs and Co said he was not worried by Greenspan's lack of international experience. "People rush to judgment, but once they get to know Greenspan I'm sure they'll find him an excellent replacement," said Hormats, a former Administration official. Anyone nominated to replace Volcker would have paled in the initial comparison, Hormats said. "Volcker had the status of a financial demigod and you can't attain that status overnight," he said. One veteran debt rescheduler said Volcker, together with the Bank of England, deserves credit for keeping the banking system intact after Mexico's default. "If it hadn't been for him, the world would look a lot different now," he said. "Whether you agreed with him or not, he has a superb grasp of ideas." Certainly, not all bankers did agree all the time with Volcker. In particular, he was roundly criticized by some for more or less forcing them last September to grant Mexico generous terms on its 77 billion dlr new-loan and debt rescheduling agreement. "Volcker lost a lot of credibility by overstepping the bounds and pushing the package onto the banks," commented one banker who helped to negotiate the Mexican deal. Another critic was Citicorp chairman John Reed, who said the 13/16 pct interest margin would deter some bank lenders and thus delay Mexico's return to the voluntary markets. It was a review of the fate of the Mexican deal - and of others that followed it for Chile, Venezuela, the Philippines and Argentina - that helped to convince Reed that the debt crisis was not about to be solved and that Citicorp needed to bolster its reserves in case some of the loans went bad. "It certainly contributed to the general feeling of malaise," one Citicorp banker said in describing the impact of the Mexican package on the bank's decision to add three billion dlrs to its reserve for possible loan losses. That decision, since followed by Chase Manhattan and Security Pacific Corp, may profoundly alter the strategy of creditors and debtors alike for tackling the debt crisis. But no one is sure what the impact will be. "It's very difficult for anyone to know which way the debt problem is going, and with Volcker out of the picture it just adds to the uncertainty," one banker said. Reuter 
NEAR TERM STRENGTH SEEN FOR CURRENCY FUTURES

Currency futures are likely to move higher following the sharp rally today after President Reagan announced that Paul Volcker would not accept a third term as Federal Reserve Chairman and that Alan Greenspan was nominated as his replacement, currency analysts said. Contrary to predictions before the Volcker resignation, analysts are calling for higher currency futures prices between now and the June 8 Venice economic summit. In particular, uncertainty about Greenspan's attitude to the dollar could undermine sentiment toward the U.S. currency, analysts said. Greenspan said today that the dollar appeared to be nearing a bottom, but the market will bear in mind his remarks in Chicago last week that the dollar's recent move upward was a technical reaction and that it would trade significantly lower, analysts said. "Disappointment of European central bankers over the appointment will be used as an opportunity to sell the dollar lower," said Manufacturers Hanover Futures vice president Carol Mackoff. "The international community will not like this appointment," as it suggests the possibility that the U.S. budget deficit is too much of a burden on monetary policy and that Volcker was unable to get the commitment he sought to reduce the deficit, added Merrill Lynch Economics analyst David Horner. Furthermore, "that Greenspan was not named two months ago suggests that he was not the Administration's first choice -- and that the status of his appointment was as a bridesmaid," Horner said. A declining dollar scenario with higher currency futures prior to and throughout the Venice meetings would be mitigated only by concrete action as opposed to "jawboning" at the G-7 summit, he said. But G-7 finance ministers, judged by recent statements, may be at an impasse, analysts said. Japan and West Germany today reiterated that neither planned further interest rate cuts, despite pressure from the U.S. to do so, Mackoff said. The U.S., on the other hand, has not cut its budget deficit as Japan and West Germany have urged, she said. Should G-7 members force a U.S. commitment to cut its budget deficit in the next two years, a further decline in the dollar could be forestalled, Horner said. However, "the impact from Venice will be nothing if nothing changes," Horner said. Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. analyst Craig Sloane said European currencies will likely move to the higher end of their 1987 ranges after today's sharp advance. For the next two weeks, Sloan calls for September yen futures to advance toward the 0.007200 area. He said September marks could close in on 0.5700 as an upside target, while Swiss francs could climb to a range between 0.6900 and 0.6950. Reuter 
HOG AND CATTLE SLAUGHTER GUESSTIMATES

Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating today's hog slaughter at about 250,000 to 270,000 head versus 249,000 week ago and 261,000 a year ago. Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 126,000 to 131,000 head versus 126,000 week ago and 131,000 a year ago. Reuter 
DOW CHEMICAL <DOW> RAISING LATEX ADDITIVE PRICES

Dow Chemical Co said effective July 15 it is raising all bulk and drum prices for its line of DOWNRIGHT styrene-butadiene latex additives used in the modification of asphalts by 15 pct. Reuter 
EGYPT SUBMITS IDENTICAL BID IN EEP WHEAT TENDER

Egypt for the third time submitted a bid of 89 dlrs per tonne in its tender for 200,000 tonnes of soft red or white wheat for June-July delivery under the export enhancement program, U.S. exporters said. USDA has rejected that bid twice, the sources noted. Reuter 
PHONEMATE INC <PHMT.O> RELISTED ON NASDAQ

PhoneMate Inc said its common stock will be relisted on the NASDAQ National Market System on July 8. NASDAQ said the company's shares were relisted in the NASDAQ system on June 4, following a delisting in September 1984 due to insufficient capital and surplus. PhoneMate Inc designs, engineers and markets telecommunications products for the home and small business markets. Reuter 
WINTER DAMAGE TO POLISH RAPESEED SEEN MINOR

Despite the past severe winter, damage to rapeseed acreage in Poland appears to be minor, the U.S. Agriculture Department's Counselor in Warsaw said in a field report. The report, dated June 11, said official statements show that about 40,000 hectares, less than 10 pct of sown area, was plowed under this year compared with the usual 15 pct. Rapeseed production is forecast at 1.1 mln tonnes, 200,000 tonnes below the record crop produced in 1986, but 35 pct above previous forecasts, the report said. Reuter 
LEWIS GALOOB <GATO.O> CLEARED FOR NYSE LISTING

Lewis Galoob Toys Inc said it has been cleared to apply for New York Stock Exchange listing, and it has filed a formal application. the company said it expects to be listed on the NYSE by the first week in July. Galoob's stock is now traded on the NASDAQ system. Reuter 
REICHHOLD <RCI> UNIT HIKES PRICES ON PRODUCTS

Reichhold Chemicals Inc <RCI.N> said its emulsion polymers division increased its selling prices of its polyvinyl acetate and vinyl acetate-acrylate latexes for paper coating application by between two and four cts per dry pound. The company attributed the price increases to the continuing escalation of raw materials costs. Reuter 
BASIN PIPELINE REOPENS IN U.S. SOUTHWEST

The Basin Pipeline in the Southwestern U.S. reopened yesterday with the expectation that all crude oil shipments for June will arrive on schedule, according to a spokesman for Texaco Inc. <TX>, operator of the pipeline through its Texaco Pipeline Co subsidiary. "We project the pipeline will make all June crude shipments scheduled," said Dan Stevens, the spokesman. The pipeline reopened Sunday evening around 1900 EDT, carrying an equivalent 280,000 barrels of crude oil per day compared with an average 225,000 bpd shipped during the 30 days before its shutdown on May 30, according to Stevens. Stevens said the increased shipments will make up for all crude oil scheduled to arrive in Cushing, Oklahoma via the pipeline by the end of June. The pipeline was shut May 30 because of an apparent rupture caused by flooding of the Red River, near the Texas/Oklahoma border. It was expected to resume service Saturday but rising waters of the river, which had recently receded, delayed the reopening, Stevens said. Approximately 1100 feet of new 24-inch steel piping was installed under the river to replace damaged piping, according to Stevens. Reuter 
AMAX INC <AMX> USES POND SYSTEM FOR MAGNESIUM

AMAX Inc unit, AMAX Magnesium Corp, said it will build a Knolls Solar Evaporation Pond System for recovery of magnesium. The company said the system will replace a previous recovery system which was flooded in 1986. The company said construction should be complete by 1988 and in full production by 1989. Reuter 
OLIN <OLN>, NIPPON-GAKKI'S YAMAHA IN PACT

Olin Corp said it formed a joint venture with the Yamaha Group of Japan's Nippon-Gakki Co LTd to manufacture Olin's high-performance copper alloys in Japan for sale in the Far East. The new firm, Yamaha-Olin Metal Corp, will share facilities with Yamaha in Iwata, which are expected to come on line in the third quarter of 1988., it said. The two companies first joined forces in August 1983 when Yamaha agreed to process and market one of Olin's alloys. The agreement led to a 1985 reroll agreement that involved a number of alloys, it said. Reuter 
OLIN NIPPON-GAKKI'S YAMAHA IN PACT

Olin Corp said it formed a joint venture with the Yamaha Group of Japan's Nippon-Gakki Co Ltd to manufacture Olin's high-performance copper alloys in Japan for sale in the Far East. The new firm, Yamaha-Olin Metal Corp, will share facilities with Yamaha in Iwata, which are expected to come on line in the third quarter of 1988., it said. The two companies first joined forces in August 1983 when Yamaha agreed to process and market one of Olin's alloys. The agreement led to a 1985 reroll agreement that involved a number of alloys, it said. Reuter 
AMOCO <AN> TO BUILD TAIWAN CHEMICAL PLANT

Amoco Corp said a Taiwan petrochemical venture in which it is part owner plans to build a chemical plant in Taiwan. The company said the plant, to be built by China American Petrochemical Co Ltd which is 50 pct owned by Amoco Chemical Co, will make purified terephthalic acid (PTA), a raw material used to make polyester fibers. It said the facility, China American's third PTA plant, will have a capacity of 550 mln pounds of PTA annually. China American's other two owners are Chinese Petroleum Corp, 25 pct, and Central Investment Holding Co, 25 pct. Reuter 
EC OFFICIAL WARNS U.S. ON UNILATERAL TRADE MOVES

Roy Denman, the European Community representative in Washington, warned the United States against setting a rule that trading partners running a surplus should be "beaten over the head" for not removing trade barriers. Denman, in an Op-Ed piece in today's Washington Post, said trade disputes should be dealt with through negotiations, either bilaterally or multilaterally, through the Geneva-based United Nations agency, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT. Denman's comments came as the Senate was to begin debate this week on a major trade bill. "It is dangerous to establish a rule that trading partners running a surplus with the United States should be beaten over the head if trade barriers objected to by the United States are not removed within a certain time-scale," said Denman in an apparent reference to some of the measures in the congressional trade bill. "If we turn to the path of unilateral action, retaliation and counter-retaliation, the one-world (GATT) trading system will very quickly unravel," he said. Denman said the 170 billion dlr U.S. trade deficit was not purely the result of unfair trade practices by foreign nations. "The trade deficit results from a combination of macroeconomic factors (the U.S. budget deficit), the exchange rate and the competitiveness of (U.S.) domestic industry," Denman said. He also said that Washington employed what he termed unfair trade prctices. He said the European Community had recently updated a list of some 30 U.S. trade barriers that impede EC exports. "We did not circulate this list with any hostile or aggressive intent. We did so to set the record straight," Denman said. Reuter 
USX <X>/WORTHINGTON PLANT REACHES DESIGN LEVELS

USX Corp said it and Worthington Industries <WTHG.O> Inc's Worthingon Specialty Products steel processing plant in Jackson, Mich., has recently reached production at the levels for which it was designed. The company said the 600,000 short ton per year plant is designed to provide automotive, appliance and other customers with first-stage processed steel for just-in-time delivery. It opened in August 1986, just as USX was beginning a six-month labor dispute. USX is sourcing the plant with coils from its Gary, Ind., works and Mon Valley Works near Pittsburgh, and Worthington is operating the plant. Reuter 
BAKER SAYS DOLLAR DROP WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE

Treasury Secretary James Baker said any further decline in the dollar against other currencies would be counterproductive. Baker was asked after a speech to the Pan American Economic Leadership Conference about U.S. policy in light of President Reagan's comment last week at the Venice summit that he could see some further decline in the dollar within reason. "All of the G-7 nations believe that any further decline in the dollar would be counterproductive," Baker told reporters. Following the Venice press conference by Reagan, the White House clarified Reagan's comments on the dollar by saying that the United States wants a stable dollar. The main incentive for the United States to favor a weaker dollar has been the need to reduce the massive trade deficit, but the deficit has narrowed for the past two months and appears to be responding to the 40 pct drop in the dollar against the yen and the mark during the past two years. Reuter 
HEDGERS INCREASE SHARE OF U.S. CRUDE OIL FUTURES

Commercial hedgers increased their stake in sales of U.S. crude oil and heating oil futures during May, according to a U.S. federal agency report. Trade hedgers accounted for 64.7 pct of open short positions in May, compared with 58.2 pct in April, and added 5,700 new sales in May, while liquidating almost 11,000 purchases, the report said. Speculators, in contrast, saw a decline in share of crude oil shorts in May. May spec shorts totaled 13.6 pct versus 25.6 pct in April. The report was prepared by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. In heating oil futures, commercial users accounted for 68.7 pct of short postions in May versus 58.2 pct in April and added 311 new short positions. Gasoline futures saw little change in the percentage of short or long positions held by commercial users, speculators, or small traders, according to the CFTC report. Trade users accounted for 72.5 pct of short gasoline futures positions in May, compared with a revised 75.7 pct in April. New York Mercantile Exchange Commitments of traders, May 29, 1987 SPECULATOR SPREADERS HEDGERS TOTAL LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT LONG SHRT HEATING 16.1 5.7 2.5 2.5 49.7 68.7 68.2 76.8 OIL SMALL TRADERS - long 31.8 short 23.2 UNLEADED 10.8 4.0 7.0 7.0 64.4 72.5 82.3 83.6 GAS SMALL TRADERS - long 17.7 short 16.4 CRUDE 15.1 13.6 5.5 5.5 61.2 64.7 81.8 83.8 OIL SMALL TRADERS - long 18.2 short 16.2 Reuter 
BEAR AUTOMOTIVE <BEAR.O> TO TRADE ON NASDAQ

Bear Automotive Service Equipment Co said its common stock will begin trading June 16 on the NASDAQ National Market System. The company manufactures computerized electronic diagnostic and wheel alignment equipment. Reuter 
NO YIELD DAMAGE YET IN U.S. CORN, BEANS - USDA

The U.S. corn and soybean crops are in mostly good condition and have not suffered any yield deterioration from recent hot, dry weather, Agriculture Department and private weather and crop analysts said. "I don't see any reduction in yield potential yet," Norton Strommen, chief meteorologist at USDA told Reuters. "The (corn and soybean) crop is actually in mostly good condition and is progressing ahead of normal, which is good," he said. Abnormally hot, dry weather in midwestern crop areas sparked a sharp rally in Chicago futures today, causing new crop soybeans to advance the 30 cent daily limit to 6.14 dlrs per bushel and September corn to go up 12 cents to 2.81 dlrs. "This rally is amazing," a private crop analyst said. "Corn, soybeans and wheat are in excellent condition." The USDA meteorologist said the only effects of the warm, dy weather on crops so far has probably been to speed up development of the crop, which will help the crop better cope with stress later in its more critical growing period. "What this weather will do is simply push the crop towards rapid development of a good, deep root system to draw on the subsoil reserve. It actually strengthens the crop to go through a little stress early on," Strommen said. Strommen noted that subsoil moisture is in good shape in most growing areas. Strommen and other private crop analysts noted corn and soybeans will not enter their critical growth stages until July and August. But because of its early development this year, Strommen said the midwestern corn crop could enter its reproduction period by the first of July. "Weatherwise, if the market is truly concerned about corn or soybeans, it should be more concerned about corn. But the dryness still has to last for another two to three weeks," an analyst said. Soybeans, on the other hand, can withstand several more weeks of dryness before yields start deteriorating, crop analysts agreed. August and September are the critical yield-producing months for soybeans, Strommen said. "The sole purpose of the soybean plant is to simply survive during May, June and July until the August rains which determine the crop," a crop analyst said. Some analysts contend, however, that in certain growing areas the crop has not been receiving enough moisture to ensure that there will not be problems later. Strommen noted the USDA's current six to 10 day weather forecast calls for above normal temperatures and below normal precipitation in much of the corn belt. "This opens up all sorts of speculation," he said. Reuter 
HOT WEATHER PUSHES CBT GRAINS TO NEW HIGHS

Hot, dry weather over the Midwest, with more forecast, pushed grain futures prices to new highs today on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybean futures led the advance, closing up the 30-cent-per-bushel daily trading limit in contracts for delivery after this year's fall harvest. All months set life-of-contract highs and November closed at 6.23 dlrs a bushel. "The market is anticipating that it will stay hotter than normal for some time out," said David Bartholomew, assistant vice president for Merrill Lynch. "We have probably gone as high as we need to go at this time, but I don't know how to measure the euphoria level." Soymeal futures, which led the grain rally last week, posted contract highs and ended up the 10 dlr a ton daily limit in new-crop contracts. December closed at 195.70 dlrs. Corn futures set contract highs in March through September, with December closing up the 10 cent a bushel limit at 2.11-3/4 dlrs. Wheat posted more modest gains as dry weather improved harvest conditions in the southern Midwest. The hot weather could stress developing corn and soybean plants in the Midwest, although some periods of dryness benefit young plants by encouraging the development of deep root systems, Bartholomew said. European demand for U.S. soybeans and meal contributed to active buying here and an estimated 2.0 mln bushels of soybean orders went unfilled at the close, traders said. After trading ended, a U.S. Agriculture Department (USDA) meteorologist said the U.S. corn and soybean crops have not suffered any yield loss yet from hot, dry weather. Strong grain futures ignored weakness in the value of the dollar, which can depress prices by making grains more expensive for foreign buyers. But the surge in soybeans encouraged buying at New York's COMEX, where silver futures recovered from early lows to settle steady. Managed fund traders bought silver on the belief that the weather-spurred jump in grain futures will revive fears of inflation. But the weak dollar pressured COMEX gold futures, which closed down following last Friday's news of improved U.S. trade deficit figures and better U.S. producer prices. A USDA report released after trading said the number of cattle being fed in seven major producing states was above levels expected by traders. Traders said the report would probably push live cattle futures lower tomorrow at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. USDA put cattle-on-feed in the seven major states at 7.52 mln head, 106 pct of a year ago and at the high end of trade forecasts. A total of 1.954 mln head were placed on feed during May, up 111 pct from a year ago, and May cattle marketings were off 93 pct at 1.524 mln head, USDA said. Cattle futures closed mixed in choppy trading today as hot weather slowed consumer demand for red meat, traders said. Reuter 
SPENDTHRIFT <SFI> REMOVED FROM AMEX

Spendthrift Farm Inc said it has consented to its removal from the American Stock Exchange due to its failure to meet financial listing requirements. The last day for Spendthrift trading shall be June 26. The company also said its board named Dale McDoulett, formerly president of Diamond Shamrock International Petroleum Co, as president replacing Robert Hagopian who resigned February 7. Reuter 
MORE EEP WHEAT FOR WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES-USDA

U.S. exporters will have the opportunity to sell 170,000 tonnes of wheat to West African countries under the Export Enhancement Program, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It said in addition to Benin, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Ghana and Togo, four more countries -- Burkina Faso, Gabon, Liberia and Niger -- have been declared eligible under the initiative. The export sales will be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), it said. West African countries have already purchased 129,500 tonnes of wheat under previously announced export bonus programs, it noted. Reuter 
THREE U.S. EXCHANGES VIE FOR GOLD

The glitter of gold has generated a three-way competition among the world's largest futures exchanges for a 100-ounce contract for the precious metal. When the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) re-introduces gold futures trading here Tuesday (at 9 a.m. CDT), it will go toe-to-toe in an uphill battle against the Commodity Exchange Inc. of New York (Comex), which brokerage executives describe as the world's precious metals futures capital for institutional business. And by autumn, the oldest and biggest exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade (CBT), expects to join the fray when the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) approves a pending application for a 100-ounce gold contract to trade side-by-side with the CBT's smaller, one kilogram (about 2.5 U.S. pounds) gold futures. The CME introduced a 100-ounce gold futures contract in 1974, but lack of interest forced it to abandon the instrument in July 1986. CME officials said investors and brokerage firms asked the exchange to reintroduce the contract because of recent volatility in precious metals. Other factors influencing the decision may also have been clearing problems in May which forced the Comex to shorten trading for three straight days in an effort to clear up a huge backlog of unresolved trades, especially in silver futures. Comex's problems may now create a window of opportunity for other exchanges to successfully offer precious metals contracts, industry sources say. But it is much too early to predict whether other exchanges can inflict serious damage on the Comex' daily trading volume of more than 40,000 contracts which represents commitments to buy and sell gold of more than 2 billion dlrs. While average daily trading in the CBT's smaller gold contract, aimed at retail customers rather than institutions, was under 500 contracts per day throughout 1986, it has surpassed 1,000 contracts daily for the past two months. "The climate could not be better for this venture by the CME," said Merrill Lynch Commodity Marketing Vice President Neil McGarrity. "Everybody is talking about metals now, and interesting daily trading ranges provide opportunities for bulls and bears. There's good trading volume in all world outlets," McGarrity added. "The Merc's gold futures would be insurance for dealers, merchants and customers that there would be a market open for trading," if heavy gold or silver futures volume causes the Comex to close early again, said Jack Lehman, senior vice president and director of commodities for Shearson Lehman Bros. Inc. and a Comex board member. Delivery points vary for each exchange's 100-ounce gold futures. Comex contracts are deliverable through New York warehouses while the CME contract specifies London delivery through a CME account at Samuel Montagu and Co. Ltd., a member of the London gold market. The CBT gold application specifies delivery from New York and Chicago vaults. The Comex and the CBT have applied to the CFTC for an earlier precious metals opening to match the CME's starting time of 7:20 a.m. CDT. The exchanges said the earlier start allows for trading before many important government reports are released at 7:30 a.m. CDT. CME marketing sources said arbitrage possibilities exist with side-by-side trading, noting local interests can be generated by traders dealing in foreign currency and short-term debt futures along with gold futures contracts to further hedge their financial risks. "If the dollar rises, traders can sell currencies and buy gold," said David Johnson, CME's manager of currency products. The Chicago Board of Trade sees an extra advantage to gold trading. "Given our night trading session, we could add either our pending 100-ounce gold or our existing 5,000-ounce silver contract to attract overseas business," a CBT official said. Which market is identified as the precious metal capital does not appear to be a major issue among professionals. "We've seen Chicago bring in a new constituency before, with perhaps different needs," Mocatta Metals Chairman Dr. Henry Jarecki said. "Merchants will go to the CME or anywhere to trade a liquid contract. Our firm is no exception," Jarecki said. "At worst, even if the CME gold futures fail, the Comex will be under pressure to improve the integrity of its clearing processes," a CME official added. Reuter 
ASCS TAKES STEPS TO EASE SALES OF CCC SOYBEANS

The Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service announced several temporary steps to enable it to respond more quickly to the high demand for Commodity Credit Corp.-owned soybeans. The CCC has suspended its practice of contacting storing warehousemen before selling soybeans for cash to a third party, said Collyn Peterson, deputy director in the ASCS Kansas City office. In addition, he said, minimum quantities for sales will be 25,000 bushels, or all of a warehouse total inventory if less than that. ASCS has added telephone lines to handle calls from those interested in buying soybeans, Peterson said. Reuter 
REAGAN SENDS KUWAITI PLAN TO CONGRESS

President Reagan today sent a classified report to Congress on his plan to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers with U.S. military escorts. Congressional officials said the report, received by House Speaker Jim Wright and Senate majority leader Robert Byrd, will not be made public. Congress has demanded a detailed security plan on how U.S. warships and servicemen would be protected from possible attack in the Gulf region, scene of the prolonged war between Iran and Iraq. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the Administration intended to push ahead with the plan despite strong opposition in Congress. He said the report to Congress provided a comprehensive overview of Administration strategy in the Gulf, adding the military escort plan would begin "when the President was satisfied that all preparations had been completed satisfactorily". Fitzwater did not say when this might be, but denied the protection plan was being held up. Reuter 
STUDY SAYS U.S. EMPLOYMENT NOT JEOPARDIZED BY BORDER PLANTS

The growing shift of low-skilled manufacturing jobs from the United States to Mexican border cities is not a threat to American employment because it will help create new markets for products, according to a study released today. Richard Bolin, director of the Flagstaff Institute of Arizona, which studies international trade issues, said the United States needs to encourage the expansion of manufacturing in developing countries so that those nations can become consumers of more U.S. goods. His study was commissioned by the border city of McAllen, Texas, for presentation to the International Trade Commission which is gathering information for a report to Congress on what changes may be needed in the U.S. tariff codes to prevent the loss of jobs and industry. McAllen and other Texas border cities have benefitted from a trend among U.S. companies to build twin plants that employ factory workers on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border. More than 700 manufacturers are taking advantage of lenient tax codes that allow U.S. companies to bring raw goods into Mexico for assembly by low-skilled workers into products that are completed by U.S. workers at a nearby sister plant. Bolin said his research indicated that the shift in low-paying jobs across the border reflected changing demographics of the U.S. workforce. "In the post-baby boom era, fewer workers will be available to fill these low-skill jobs -- and these workers will be better educated than prior generations," Bolin told reporters in McAllen. "The jobs in low-tech industries that are being exported to other countries are, for the most part, jobs that we may not be able to fill in the future." U.S. employment in less-skilled manufacturing jobs plunged by more than 900,000 between 1977 and 1982, largely due to the transfer of jobs outside U.S. borders, he said. American employment in high-tech industries increased by 634,000 during the same period, he said. But high-tech industries, those in which engineers make up more than six percent of the workforce, pay higher wages and generate more U.S. exports than low-tech businesses, he said. Reuter 
SUMMIT DEEPENS IMF COORDINATION ROLE,OFFICIAL SAYS

The Venice summit accord gives the International Monetary Fund (IMF) increased responsibility in smoothing vital economic cooperation between industrial countries, a senior IMF official said. The official, who met reporters but asked not to be identified, made clear that the use of a series of economic measurements to monitor the seven leading industrial democracies would be difficult but was a major step in cooperation. The United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada agreed at the summit to use a series of economic indicators to forecast economic behaviour in an attempt to increase cooperation on economic policy. The setting of a formal process of review, while seen as a step forward in the cooperative effort, was also criticised because it lacked teeth to force a country to change economic behaviour that hurt other countries. But the official said influences and peer pressure could have a major impact in reforming an erring country. Economists generally believe a cooperative economic approach by the largest countries will have a salutory impact on the global economy, including helping the poorest debtor countries. The official said the IMF function would be to warn countries when their economic behaviour was straying badly and try to persuade them to modify it. "I hope it will be a yellow light, not a red flag," he said. He also said he hoped negotiations would begin in the next few weeks to increase the IMF's structural adjustment facility, which helps 62 of the world's poorest countries. The facility, approved about 15 months ago, is currently financed at about 3.8 billion dlrs, but this would be tripled under the plan. He said reaching an accord on the agreement would be very difficult, with countries pressing each other to do more and finding reasons to reduce their own exposure. "They will be tremendously difficult negotiations," he said. REUTER 
TAIWAN MISSION TO BUY 410,000 BALES U.S. COTTON

A Taiwan mission plans to buy 410,000 bales (500 lbs/bale) of U.S. Cotton worth about 110 mln U.S. Dlrs when it visits several U.S. States early next month, a spokesman for the Taiwan Spinners Association told Reuters. He said a similar mission last year bought 700,000 bales worth 77 mln dlrs. He said the mission was buying less U.S. Cotton because the price is some 15 pct higher than that of cotton from Pakistan and India. The current average price of U.S. Cotton is 75 cents/lb, but the spokesman estimated the average price will be 53 cents when the shipments are made next year. REUTER 
SHULTZ SEES GOLDEN FUTURE FOR PHILIPPINES

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz forecast a golden future for the Philippines after talks on its struggle for economic recovery and its fight against communist insurgents. Speaking at a luncheon after an hour-long meeting with President Corazon Aquino, Shultz delivered a powerful and uncompromising endorsement of the Manila government. "There is a golden future out there for the Filipino people to gain," he said. But he tempered his praise with a veiled hint Washington's attitude might change if what it called the current realism was seen to be diluted. "The political dreams of only 18 months ago are becoming the democratic institutions of today," Shultz said. "Your economy is developing an impressive head of steam, the insurgents are learning that threats and intimidation will not stop the Filipino people from voting for democracry." He said he had been struck by the widespread awareness of the problems facing the Philippines. "No one I have met under-estimates the tasks which lie ahead or the need to act upon them. That Filipino realism is an essential element of American confidence in the Philippines," he said. Shultz said the revolution which brought Aquino to power 18 months ago was still under way. He praised the efforts made by the armed forces in combatting the communist insurgency, now in its 18th year, adding that Aquino was also addressing the social and economic problems fuelling the rebellion. Defence Minister Rafael Ileto, briefing reporters after a separate meeting with Shultz, said the U.S. Was just as confident as he was that the communists would be beaten. U.S. Officials made it clear before the start of today's talks that they expected no dramatic developments. REUTER 
U.S. HOUSING STARTS FELL 2.7 PCT IN MAY

U.S. housing starts fell 2.7 pct in May to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,620,000 units, the Commerce Department said. In April, housing starts fell a revised 3.8 pct to 1,665,000 units. The department previously said they fell 2.9 pct. The rate at which permits were issued for future construction fell in May by 7.6 pct to a seasonally adjusted 1,477,000 units after falling 7.0 pct to 1,598,000 units in April. The department said May housing starts were at the lowest annual rate since December 1984, when starts were at a seasonally adjusted 1,612,000 units. The permits total was the lowest for any month since March 1983, when 1,475,000 permits were issued. Before seasonal adjustment, May housing starts fell to 159,600 units from 161,600 units in April. Permits before adjustment fell to 134,800 units in May from 157,000 in April. The department said single-family housing starts fell in May by 7.6 pct to 1,129,000 units from 1,222,000 units in April. The May decline followed a slight 0.9 pct rise in single-family starts in April. Starts for multi-family units rose 10.8 pct in May to 491,000 units after declining in April by 14.6 pct to 443,000 units. Permits for single-family homes in May were down 5.0 pct to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,005,000 units from 1,058,000 units in April. The decline followed a 8.0 pct drop in single-family permits in April. Permits for multi-family units fell in May by 12.6 pct to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 472,000 units from 540,000 units in April. The May decline came after a 5.1 pct drop in the seasonally adjusted annual rate of permits for multi-family units in April. Reuter 
CHILE SIGNS DEBT RESCHEDULING AGREEMENT

Representatives of the Republic of Chile and its 400-plus international bank creditors started signing agreements to reschedule 10.6 billion dlrs of the country's foreign debt, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co said. Manufacturers Hanover, which chairs a 12-bank advisory committee that agreed the terms of the deal in late February, said all of Chile's creditor banks have approved the package. A key feature of the rescheduling agreement is that Chile will avoid the need for fresh bank loans this year and next by making interest payments to the banks every twelve months instead of every six months. Reuter 
MCDONNELL DOUGLAS <MD> GETS BIG THAI AIR ORDER

McDonnell Douglas Corp said it has received an order from Thai Airways International for one McDonnell Douglas DC-10 Series 30ER aircraft and four MD-11 long-range trijets, plus options for four more MD-11's. The company said the nine aircraft, together with two other DC-10ER's ordered earlier this year by Thai Air, are worth about one billion dlrs. It said the DC-10 is scheduled for April 1988 delivery and the first two newly ordered MD-11's in September and November 1990, with the others two in October and November 1991. McDonnell Douglas said the DC-10 will be powered by General Electric Co <GE> CF6-50C2 engines and the MD-11's by GE CF6-80C2 engines. Reuter 
U.S. BUDGET COMPROMISE REACHED IN CONGRESS

Congressional Democratic leaders announced a compromise has been reached on a 1988 budget, paving the way for final approval of a trillion dollar spending plan. House Speaker Jim Wright and Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd told a news conference that final congressional approval of the plan to reduce an estimated 171 billion dlr deficit next year to 134 billion dlr was expected next week. The plan was worked out by Democrats who control both House and Senate but who have been stalemated for a month over different House and Senate budgets that passed earlier. The budget proposes 19.5 billion dlrs in new taxes next year, 65 billion dlrs over a three year span. It would cut President Reagan's request to spend 298 billion dlrs for defense in 1988 by about nine billion dlrs, but only if he accepts the proposed tax increase to pay for it. If Reagan rejects the tax rise, which he has said he would, defense spending under the plan would drop automatically by about five billion dlrs, the leaders said. Reagan's own budget was rejected by wide margins in both House and Senate by a combination of Democrats and his own Republican party who said it was unrealistic. Reuter 
SENATOR SAYS REAGAN FARM REFORM PLANS DOOMED

Senator Kent Conrad, D-ND, said President Reagan's goal of phasing-out world farm subsidies by the year 2000 is doomed to failure because the European Community, EC, will not accept it. "It (Reagan plan) is a nonstarter. Its absolutely crystal clear they (EC) have no intention of eliminating subsidies," said Conrad on his return from a four-day visit to Europe. Instead of proposing an end to farm subsidies, he said the U.S. should adopt some of the EC Common Agricultural Policy, CAP, principles by seeking a "compromise" agreement with Brussels to jointly reduce production, and apply a two-price system of high domestic and low export prices. Under the plan, export subsidies would bridge domestic and world price gaps, said Conrad, a new member of the Senate Agriculture Committee. Reuter 
BUDGET PACT CUTS U.S. FARM FUNDS 1.25 BILLION DLRS

U.S. House and Senate budget negotiators agreed as part of an overall budget accord reached yesterday, to cut 1.25 billion dlrs from fiscal 1988 spending on agricultural programs, Congressional sources told Reuters. The agreed cut in farm programs is a compromise between 1.4 billion sought by the Senate and one billion by the House. The negotiators also agreed to cut 1.6 billion from the farm budget in fiscal 1989 and 2.45 billion in 1990, for a total of 5.3 billion in saving over three years, sources said. The agreement presents the House and Senate Agriculture committees with difficult choices on how to make changes in agriculture programs that achieve the budget savings targets without jeopardizing popular support payments, senior Congressional aides told Reuters. Some farm state lawmakers already are manuevering to find the budget savings. Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., Chairman of the House grains subcommittee, has introduced a bill which would freeze wheat and corn loan rates for the 1988 crop at the current 2.28 dlrs and 1.92 dlrs respectively, saying it would save 500 mln dlrs. House Agriculture Committee chairman Kika De la Garza has said the committee will consider the Glickman proposal. But Congressional sources said the proposal is unlikely to be approved because of opposition from Republican lawmakers and a strong stance by Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng, who said freezing loan rates would send the wrong signal to other major grain export competitors and would not achieve the budget savings Glickman claims. Another area where Glickman and other have said budget savings might be made is to increase acreage reduction program, ARP, levels for wheat and corn. However, on this issue also Lyng has taken a strong stand within the Reagan administration, arguing that the 1988 crop wheat acreage reduction should be left at 27.5 pct and not 30 pct as sought by the Office of Management and Budget, OMB. Most commodity lobbyists expect Lyng to prevail. Congressional sources said the only way to achieve significant budget cuts through ARP increases would be to boost the 1988 corn ARP. But one informed Congressional source said singling-out corn for an ARP increase would would be seen as unfair to one commodity. Congressional sources said the areas where Congress is most likely to eventually look for budget savings are some tightening of the payment limitation rules, and possible adoption of a 0/92 program for the 1988 crops of major grains. Those changes would achieve a portion of the 1.25 billion but not enough, they said. Ultimately, Congressional sources said the agriculture committees may be forced to apply an across-the-board cut on all Commodity Credit Corp. payments to farmers, including price support loans and deficiency payments, similar to the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings budget cut applied in fiscal 1986. This idea has been suggested by the American Farm Bureau Federation, AFBF, as the fairest approach for all commodities. Reuter 
U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS ROSE IN WEEK

New applications for unemployment insurance benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 in the week ended June 6 from 310,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,359,000 in the week ended May 30, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was up from 2,255,000 the previous week. Reuter 
U.S. PERSONAL INCOME ROSE 0.2 PCT IN MAY, SPENDING UP 0.1
PCT



U.S. PERSONAL INCOME ROSE 0.2 PCT IN MAY

U.S. personal income rose 0.2 pct, or 7.9 billion dlrs, in May to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3,630.0 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said. The increase followed a revised 0.4 pct rise in April. The department previously estimated April income rose 0.3 pct. The department also revised up the March personal income rise to 0.3 pct from a previously reported 0.2 pct. Personal consumption expenditures rose 0.1 pct, or 1.5 billion dlrs, to 2,893.3 billion dlrs in May after rising 0.6 pct or 18.6 billion dlrs in April, the department said. The department said both the April and May increases in personal income were restrained by lower subsidy payments to farmers and by initial payments to a newly established retirement fund for federal government employees in April. Wages and salaries increased 8.8 billion dlrs in May after a 7.0 billion dlr rise in April, while manufacturing payrolls were up 1.6 billion dlrs in May after falling 1.3 billion dlrs in April. Farmers' incomes fell 11 billion dlrs in May after decreasing 6.7 billion dlrs in April due to lower farm subsidy payments, the department said. Reuter 
FED GOVERNOR SEGER SEES CURRENCY STABILITY

Federal Reserve Board Governor Martha Seger said there were signs of helpful stability in foreign exchange markets in recent weeks. "I think we are beginning to see more calm in those markets," Seger told reporters after a speech to the U.S. League of Savings Institutions. "I think it is very healthy when you can get into a period of stability," she said. She said market forces have a major influence on exchange rates and said she did not know the right value for the dollar against the Yen or the Mark. Seger told the Savings and Loan executives that she was concerned about financial markets' absorption with exchange rate influences. "I am concerned that we have gotten so nervous," about exchange rates, Seger said. She said the Fed takes into account additional factors in determining monetary policy than the value of the dollar against other currencies. On the economy, Seger called the latest figures in gross national product a modest upward revision. Reuter 
INDONESIA/TURKEY ELIGIBLE FOR CATTLE UNDER EEP

U.S. exporters will be able to sell 8,000 head of dairy cattle to Indonesia and 5,000 head to Turkey under the Export Enhancement Program, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The export sales will be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), the department said. Indonesia and Turkey already have purchased 7,500 and 5,000 head of dairy cattle, respectively, under the program. Details of the program and an invitation for offers from exporters will be issued in the near future, it said. Reuter 
N.Y. FED PRESIDENT URGES BANK REFORM

New York Federal Reserve President E. Gerald Corrigan said he favors bank reform but wants to maintain the separation of banking and commerce. "As I see it, the case for fundamental reform in our banking and financial system is compelling," Corrigan told the Senate Banking Committee. Corrigan said he believed bank reform should allow banks to offer a broad range of banking and financial services. He said common ownership of banks, thrifts, securities firms and insurance companies should be allowed but commercial firms should not own or control insured depositories. Committee Chairman William Proxmire (D-Wisc) said he would press for bank reform legislation this year and supported giving banks new power for commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities, municipal bond underwriting and mutual funds. Former Citicorp Chairman Walter Wriston said bank reform should reflect the reality that other companies were offering banking services such as checking accounts credit cards and mortgages. "The reality is that there is one-stop financial shopping at banks in some states, but not in others," Wriston said. "There is also one-stop financial shopping in all 50 states at a Sears store or American Express office." "We must find ways for banks to deliver new products to new customers in order to maintain a spread of risk in a business that is rapidly losing traditional products and customers," he said. But John Weinberg of Goldman, Sachs and Co said allowing banks to enter the securities business would make banks too powerful. Reuter 
SHELL CANADA <SHC> RAISES CRUDE 32 CTS CANADIAN

Shell Canada <SHC>, whose majority interest is owned by the Royal Dutch/Shell Group of companies, raised the postings of light sweet and sour crude oil from Edmonton/Swann Hills 32 Canadian cts a barrel, effective today. The new price for light sweet crude oil is 25.60 Canadian dlrs a barrel while the new price for light sweet sour crude is 24.08 Canadian dlrs a barrel. The Royal Dtuch/Shell Group owns 72 pct of Shell Canada and public shareholders, primarily Canadian, own the remaining 28 pct of the company, a Shell Canada spokesman said. Reuter 
IMPERIAL OIL <IMO.A> RAISES CRUDE 32 CANADIAN CTS

Canadian Imperial Oil, 70 pct Exxon owned, said it raised its posting for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton by 32 canadian cts a barrel, effective today. The company said its new posting for light sweet crude oil at Edmonton is 25.60 canadian dlrs a barrel. Reuter 
FRANCE VIDEOTEX SERVICE IN PACT WITH U.S. UNIT

The French agency for international marketing of videotex, <Intelmatique>, said it plans to bring the Minitel network to the U.S. in cooperation with Infonet, an international network service of Computer Sciences Corp <CSC>. Minitel, which now offers Gannett Co Inc's <GCI> USA Today and the <British Broadcasting Corp's> news service, will be aimed at French-speaking businesses in the U.S., Intelmatique said. Initially, only about 300 applications in the Eastern corridor between the New York area and Washington will be included in the pilot project, the company said. Users will pre-pay communciation costs and connetion fees of about 25 dlrs per hour, the company said. Also, participants in the pilot program will be able to rent Minitel terminals for 25 dlrs per month, Intelmatique said. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES

The Federal Reserve will enter the government securities market to supply reserves via either a large round of customer repurchase agreements or by overnight or possibly four-day system repurchases, economists said. They said the Fed has a fairly large add need and is likely to face the most reserve dislocations early in the new statement period started today as corporate tax payments swell Treasury balances at the Fed. Fed funds hovered at 6-3/4 pct after averaging 6.80 pct yesterday. Reuter 
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE 50 CTS/BBL

Southland Corp's subsidiary Citgo Petroleum said it raised its posted prices for crude oil across the board by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. Citgo said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet is now posted at 19.35, the company said. Reuter 
MURPHY OIL <MUR> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS

Murphy Oil said it increased its crude oil posted prices by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The company said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana Sweet crude is now 19.35 dollars a barrel, the company said. Increases follow a general trend in the industry started yesterday by Sun Co. Reuter 
PHILLIPS PETROLEUM <P> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS

Phillips Petroleum Co said it raised its crude oil posted prices for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The company said the new posted price for WTI and WTS is 19 dlrs a barrel. The increase is in reaction to Sun Co raising postings similarly yesterday. Reuter 
MOBIL <MOB> HAS NORTH SEA NATURAL GAS FIND

Mobil Corp said the 49/28-14 wildcat well in Block 49/28 of the British North Sea flowed 50.6 mln cubic feet of natural gas per day from depths of 7,742 to 7,777 feet. The company said it has a 23.33 pct interest and other interest holders include Atlantic Richfield Co <ARC>, Sun Co <SUN> and Deminex AG 10 pct. Reuter 
IMF LOANS UGANDA 92.1 MLN DLRS

The International Monetary Fund said it has loaned Uganda 92.1 mln dlrs to aid in economic recovery. The fund said 60 mln dlrs of the loan is available through the so-called structural adjustment facility (SAF) over the next three years. The fund said 57.5 mln dlrs will be available immediately under the SAF and a separate financing arrangement. After expanding in the early 1980's, Uganda's economy has suffered setbacks since 1984 of falling industrial and agricultural output and accelerating inflation, the fund said. The current economic downturn has been worsened by the sharp decline in the world price of coffee, Uganda's major export, the fund said. Reuter 
UNION PACIFIC <UNP> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES

Union Pacific Resources, formerly Champlin Petroleum, said it raised posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective yesterday. The price increase brings West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The posted price increase follows a similar move by several other oil companies. Sun Co was the first to raise crude oil postings yesterday afternoon and today many other companies are following. The last price increase made by oil companies was around May 22. Reuter 
MARATHON RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS/BBL, WTI NOW
19.00 DLRS.



STEEL FIRMS STUDY USX <X> UNIT PRICE HIKE

Two major steel companies said they were studying a price increase announced yesterday by USX Corp's USS steelmaking division. Spokesman for Armco Inc <AS> and Bethlehem Steel Corp <BS> said the proposed price hike was under study. Yesterday, USS said it plans to raise base prices on plate products by 20 dlrs a ton, or about five pct, effective with shipments October 4. A spokesman for LTV Steel Co, a unit of LTV Corp <QLTV>, declined comment, adding that the company does not make heavy plate and makes few other plate products. A spokesman for <National Steel Corp>, a joint venture of National Intergroup Inc <NII> and Nippon Kokan K.K., said the company is not in the product lines affected. Reached later, an Inland Steel Industries Inc <IAD> spokesman said the company was studying the pricing move. USX said the increase will be on all plate products, including carbon, high-strength low-alloy, strip mill and alloy plates. It also said it planned 20-dlr-a-ton increases on some special plate widths and thicknesses. Analysts have said firm prices for steel should contribute to better results at the nation's major steelmakers. Reuter 
COASTAL <CGP> CRUDE POSTING UP 50 CTS/BBL

Coastal Corp <CGP> said it raised the postings of crude oil 50 cts a barrel across the board, effective yesterday, June 17. The new price for West Texas Intermediate is 19.00 dlrs a barrel. For West Texas Sour the new price is 18.10 dlrs a barrel. Reuter 
FED ADDS RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via two billion dlrs of customer repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the New York Fed said. Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct when the Fed began its action. Reuter 
NATIONAL INTERGROUP <NII> UNIT RAISES CRUDE PRICES

Permian Corp, a subsidiary of National Intergroup, said it raised its crude oil postings by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. the company said its new posted price for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour is 19 dlrs a barrel, while Light Louisiana Sweet is now 19.35. The price hike follows other increases industrywide. Reuter 
PRIMERICA <PA> LISTS ON LONDON EXCHANGE

Primerica Corp said its common stock has been listed on the London Stock Exchange. Reuter 
U.S. STEEL FIRMS STUDY USX UNIT PRICE HIKE

Two major steel companies said they were studying a price increase announced yesterday by USX Corp's USS steelmaking division. Spokesman for Armco Inc and Bethlehem Steel Corp said the proposed price hike was under study. Yesterday, USS said it plans to raise base prices on plate products by 20 dlrs a short ton, or about five pct, effective with shipments October 4. A spokesman for LTV Steel Co, a unit of LTV Corp, declined comment, adding that the company does not make heavy plate and makes few other plate products. Reuter 
PETRO-CANADA CRUDE UP 32 CTS CANADIAN/BBL

Petro-Canada, a state-owned oil company, raised the posting prices of sweet and sour crude oils 32 cts Canadian per barrel, effective today, the company said. The change brings the price of light sweet crude to 26.50 dlrs Canadian per barrel and the price of light sour crude to 23.77 dlrs Canadian a barrel. The crude oils are from Edmonton/Swann Hills. Reuter 
SEC ACTS ON EXCHANGE-LISTED OPTIONS TRADING

The Securities and Exchange Commission began proceedings in which it will consider allowing options trading on exchange-listed securities on more than one options market. In a three-nil decision, the SEC voted to seek public comment on a proposed rule removing restrictions that prevent the options from being traded on more than one market. Exclusive trading rights in options on exchange-listed stocks are now determined by a lottery system among options exchanges. The SEC also voted to ask the New York, American, Chicago Board Options, Pacific and Philadelphia Exchanges to voluntarily postpone an options allocation lottery scheduled for June 22 while the matter is under consideration. Richard Ketchum, head of the SEC's division of market regulation, said the exchanges are not required to adhere to the request. Reuter 
PAN-ALBERTA/UNITED GAS SETTLEMENT APPROVED

Pan-Alberta Gas Ltd said its 1986 proposed settlement with United Gas Pipe Line Co, of Houston, received unconditional approval by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulator Commission. Pan-Alberta said the approved deal authorized terms of a two-year interim contract amendment, cash payments and transportation credits for Pan-Alberta's customers, minimum yearly natural gas takes by United and a two-year commodity price. United will pay Pan-Alberta producers about 50 mln dlrs over the interim period and take at least an average 40 mln cubic feet a day of gas, Pan-Alberta said. Reuter 
UNOCAL <UCL> RAISED CRUDE OIL POSTINGS BY 50 CTS/BBL

Unocal said it raised its postings for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The company said it is now posting West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour at 19 dlrs a barrel. Unocal said its new Light Louisiana Sweet posted price is 19.35 dlrs a barrel. the price move follows a wave of increases initiated by Sun Co yesterday. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS MEXICO 400 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it has loaned Mexico 400 mln dlrs to help support an agricultural credit project. The project hopes to increase agricultural productivity, exports, and real farm income by providing credit to private farmers, ranchers and agro-industries, the bank said. The loan will be used for lending mainly by commercial banks and the National Rural Credit Bank, Mexico's largest agricultural credit lender, the bank said. It also said the project hopes to aid in reducing the government's interest rate and credit subsidies. The project will also support improvement of the agricultural credit system through reduction of subsidies for credit and crop insurance, and increased domestic resource mobilization, the bank said. The loan, guaranteed by the government, is for 15 years, including three years of grace, at a variable interest rate - currently 7.92 pct, the bank said. Reuter 
REICHHOLD <RCI> RAISES WAFERBOARD RESIN PRICES

Reichhold Chemicals Inc said its Reichhold Ltd subsidiary has raised prices seven U.S. cent per pound on powdered phenolic waferboard resins, effective July 1, due to sharp increases in the cost of phenol. Reuter 
DIAMOND SHAMROCK <DRM> RAISES CRUDE POSTINGS

Diamond Shamrock R and M said it raised its crude oil contract prices by 50 cts a barrel, effective June 17. The company said its new posting for West Texas Intermediate crude is 19 dlrs a barrel. The price increase follows similar moves by several other companies. Reuter 
DUPONT UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS

Conoco Inc, a subsidiary of duPont deNemours <DD>, said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil 50 cts a barrel, effective yesterday. The increase brings Conoco's posted price for West Texas Intermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The West Texas Sour grade, at 34 API, now stands at 18.10 dlrs a barrel. Light Louisiana was also raised 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs barrel. Conoco last changed its crude postings on May 21. Reuter 
LM ERICSSON <ERICY> UNIT INTRODUCING PRODUCT

<LM Ericsson Telephone Co> of Sweden said its Ericsson unit in the U.S. introduced a cellular system for small cellular telephone markets. The company said its CMS 8800/S system incorporates Ericsson hardware and software. It said extra base stations and voice channels can be added to the system in modular blocks. Reuter 
COMMITMENTS TO NEW ARGENTINE LOAN REACH 91 PCT

Commitments to Argentina's external financing program for 1987 and 1988 have reached about 91 pct of the 1.95 billion dlrs in new loans that banks have been asked to provide, Citibank and Argentina said in a joint statement. This percentage is close to the "critical mass" of commitments that the International Monetary Fund has requested as a condition for releasing new loans to the country. Senior Citibank executive William Rhodes said he was encouraged by the banks' response and that telexed commitments continue to arrive. The response of Argentina's 350 foreign bank creditors had been eagerly awaited because the package is the first to be marketed since U.S. banks, led by Citibank, decided to take large second-quarter losses in order to boost their reserves against existing loans to developing countries. Some bankers had feared that banks would refuse to lend new money so soon after taking a "hit" on the old loans, but today's news delivers a decisive rebuff to those skeptics. The strong response to the package was partly the result of the inducement of a 3/8 pct early-participation fee for those banks that agreed to sign up by June 17, bankers said. Reuter 
FLUOR <FLR> WINS GENERAL ELECTRIC <GE> CONTRACT

Fluor Corp said it won a contract with General Electric to design, construct and deliver modules for a methyl chloride process addition. The value of the contract was not disclosed. Fluor said its Applied Engineering Co unit will construct 28 modular sections and deliver them to GE's Waterford, N.Y. Silicone Products division plant. Methyl chloride is an integral part of silicone production. Reuter 
CONT'L ILLINOIS <CIL> CANNOT EXPLAIN STOCK MOVE

Continental Illinois Corp said it knows of know reason why its stock was trading higher in heavy volume. The stock was up 1/2 to 5-3/8 on turnover of 1,386,000 shares, making it one of the most actively traded NYSE issues. Traders earlier said Goldman Sachs and Co was trading on the stock. However, Goldman Sachs banking analyst Robert Albertson had not placed the stock on his recommended list, his office told Reuters. Reuter 
ELBIT COMPUTERS <ELBTF.O> GETS CONTRACTS

Elbit Computers Ltd of Israel said it has received a 6,300,000 dlr contract from a buyer it did not name for its DASHJ helmet-mounted sight system, which allows pilots to aim weapons by looking at targets. The company said deliveries are expected to start in 18 months and be completed 12 months later. Reuter 
PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL <PNW> BUYS MINERAL RIGHTS

Pinnacle West Capital Corp said its Malapai Resources Co units bought the mineral rights for uranium mining on about 21,000 acres in northern Wyoming from Westinghouns Electric Corp <WX>. The property is adjacent to a 34,000-acre site the company already owns. Both facilities are at expected to be in full operation in the early 1990s, with annual production of one to two mln lbs of uranium concentrates, the company said. The new site is expected to produce about 250,000 lbs of uranium in its first full year of production in 1988. The adjacent property is expected to begin in 1989. Reuter 
WEST TEXAS COTTON CROP UNSCATHED BY STORM

The West Texas cotton crop was largely unscathed by an isolated thunderstorm in that region last night that packed hurricane-force winds, crop and weather experts said. "There might have been some isolated storms, but certainly nothing damaging," said Charles Stichler, an extension agronomist with the Agricultural Extension Service in far West Texas. Rumors of a damaging storm in West Texas helped the New York cotton futures market rally sharply this morning. Cotton for December delivery was 1.35 cents higher at 70.95 cents a lb at midsession after peaking this morning at 71.25 cents. "What happened is that the storm hit Lubbock airport, and when that happens, everybody sees it," said Dale Mohler, a senior meteorologist with Accu-Weather Inc. Lubbock is the heart of the West Texas cotton region, which produces about 80 pct of that state's crop. The storm produced winds of about 75 mph. "That's hurricane force. But they were isolated to just a small portion of the West Texas area, probably less than five pct," Mohler said. "No doubt there was some damage. But if it had hit in July or August (when fruiting would be underway) it would have been worse," Mohler said. About 60 pct of the West Texas cotton crop has been planted, and the remainder could be done by the weekend if weather remains hot and dry, Stichler said. The temperature in West Texas since mid-week has been about 95 degrees. But a hot spell was sorely needed after far heavier than normal rainfall for several weeks, he said. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS PAKISTAN 220 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it has extended Pakistan 220 mln dlrs in three loans to support projects in education, energy conservation and modernization, and small-scale industry development. The education project will be supported by a 145 mln dlr loan through the International Development Association, the bank's concessionary lending affiliate, the bank said. The bank noted Pakistan's low educational attainment, particularly among women, is an obstacle to the country's development. It said the education project aims to increase literacy and school enrollment rates through curriculum reform, teacher training, parental participation and school construction. A small-scale industry development project will be supported by a 54 mln dlr loan, the bank said. The project hopes to aid small-scale industry by encouraging bank lending, developing export markets, and supporting technology transfer, the bank said. The third project, to improve refinery efficiency, reduce energy consumption and increase crude oil processing capacity, will be supported by a 21 mln dlr loan. Reuter 
JORDAN GETS 96.4 MLN DLRS IN WORLD BANK LOANS

Jordan will receive two loans totalling 96.4 mln dlrs to support projects aimed at increasing that country's electrical production and improving housing in slum and squatter areas, the World Bank said. The bank said it is making a 70 mln dlr loan to help fund a 257.8 mln dlr project designed to meet its future power needs. It said the other loan is 26.4 mln dlrs in support of project to provide affordable housing, urban infrastructure and social services to low-income families in slum and squatter areas. Reuter 
CHEYENNE <CHYN.O> BUYS INTERESTS IN PROPERTIES

Cheyenne Resources Inc said it purchased interests in four producing oil and gas properties for 2,240,000 shares of the company's restricted stock. The largest interest was 25 pct of an oil and gas well in Weld County, Colo, the company said. Cheyenne said it had five pct or less interest in the three other properties. Cheyenne said it should realized 10,000 dlrs net income monthly at the properties' current production levels. Reuter 
PROXMIRE SAYS NO DATE SET FOR GREENSPAN HEARING

Senate Banking committee chairman William Proxmire, D-Wis, said no date had been set for Alan Greenspan's confirmation hearing as Federal Reserve chairman because the White House had not formally sent his nomination to the Senate. Proxmire said in an interview that as soon as the White House completed its clearence procedures and sent Greenspan's name to the Senate, he would schedule a hearing on the replacement for Paul Volcker. The committee and the full Senate must confirm Greenspan. Volcker's term expires in August. Reuter 
BANK OF AMERICA SEES SLOW U.S. CONSUMER SPENDING

A trade-led boom in the U.S. is unlikely this year or next because growth in net exports will merely offset a dramatic slowdown in consumer spending and other sectors of the economy, Bank of America said in its latest economic report. Although net exports will add 0.7 pct to GNP this year, after reducing it by 1.2 pct in 1986, consumer spending will contribute 1.4 pct less to GNP than it did last year. As a result, GNP this year is likely to expand a modest 2.5 pct, the same rate as last year, according to Daniel Van Dyke, the Bank of America economist who wrote the report. "Growth in consumer spending in the United States will drop dramatically this year because the jump in inflation will cause a falloff in the growth of disposable income," Van Dyke said. Growth in U.S. consumer spending is likely to slow to 1.8 pct this year from 4.1 pct in 1986, he predicted. The report was released before the Commerce Department reported today that personal income rose just 0.2 pct in May, after increasing 0.4 pct in April, and that personal consumption expenditures had risen just 0.1 pct, compared with a 0.6 pct increase the month before. The rising cost of energy and imports is likely to boost consumer prices by an average of 3.7 pct this year, up from 1.9 pct in 1986, Bank of America forecast. This rise in inflation will reduce real disposable income growth to only 1.3 pct in 1987 from 2.9 pct in 1986. As a result, Van Dyke calculated that the purchasing power of an average family of four will increase by a modest 540 dlrs this year compared to a surge of 1,210 dlrs during 1986. The slowdown in income growth is likely to cause housing starts to drop by 4.2 pct this year and a further six pct in 1988 to an annual rate of 1.63 mln units. "For the first time in several years, a recession in 1988 or 1989 is more than a remote possibility," Van Dyke said. Currently, U.S. growth is fragile and depends heavily on an improvement in trade. "However, with protectionist attitudes on the rise in this country, this source of growth is at risk," he added. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS PORTUGAL 50 MLN DLRS

World Bank said it has loaned Portugal 50 mln dlrs to help improve its highway system. The bank loan is part of a 400.4 mln dlr, three-year government financed project to rehabilitate or improve about 3410 miles of highway, the bank said. It also said the project hopes to increase road safety by improving signs, aiding enforcement of axle-load legislation, and adding patrol cars and communications equipment. The loan is for 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate, currently 7.92 pct, the bank said. Reuter 
BROOKLYN UNION<BU> SEEN HURT BY PIPELINE CLOSURE

Brooklyn Union Gas Co, a New York gas utility, will see its gas costs up sharply as a result of Transco Energy Co's <E> decision to close its pipelines to transport spot gas sales, energy industry analysts said. Brooklyn Union, the fourth largest gas utility in the United States, purchased 36 pct of its supplies on the spot, or non-contract, market in 1986, and the proportion of spot supplies was estimated much higher in the five months of 1987, analysts said. Texas Eastern pipelines <TET>, the other competing pipeline, to deliver spot gas from producing areas in the South closed its gate station for summer, and Brooklyn Union has relied entirely on Transco for spot supplies. In the month of May, Brooklyn Union paid about two dlrs per mln British Thermal Unit for spot gas, while contract gas costs four to five dlrs per mln BTU, industry sources said. Transco announced yesterday it would no longer provide open access to transport spot natural gas to its customers for fear of accumulating more take-or-pay liabilities. Take-or-pay contracts oblige pipelines to pay producers for gas even if delivery is not taken by its customers. Brooklyn Union will continue receiving a small amount of supplies from minor fields under a grandfather clause, a Brooklyn Union official said. Foster Corwith, gas analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds, said most of the rising cost to Booklyn Union will be passed through to rate payers. While net effect on the company will not be known for several months because of the time lag in deferred earnings, end-users, especially residential and commercial customers, will end up paying more for gas, he said. Because the closure takes place in summer months when gas demand is at seasonal low, the impact on cash flow would be small, Curt Launer, natural gas analyst with Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette, said. If the situation persists into winter heating season, high cost gas could cut in the company's profits, he said. Gas utilities along eastern seaboard relying on Transco for spot gas, such as North Carolina Natural Gas Co <NCNG>, Piedmont Natural Gas Co <PNY>, will face the same high cost factor as Brooklyn Union, Steve Richards, a supply manager with end users supply system, a Houston based natural gas brokering firm, said. "But these companies are not unwitting victims of the take-or-pay dispute between Transco and producers," he said. Distributors have turned a deaf ear to Transco's request for an inventory charge, which reserves the pipeline facility for spot gas to be delivered to these companies, he said. Without spot supplies, the high cost of system gas will threaten to drive away large customers capable of shifting to alternative fuels, he said. In absence of any guidelines on inventory charges from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the matter is being negotiated between pipelines and customers, Richards said. Now that Transco has refused to transport cheap spot gas for them, these distributors are likely to be more conciliatory on the inventory charge, he said. "Cool heads will prevail," DLJ's Launer said, " but it may take a while." Reuter 
REYNOLDS METALS <RLM> TO RESTART IDLE POTLINE

Reynolds Metals co said it plans to restart the last idle potuction line at its Troutdale, Ore., primary aluminum plant. With the restart of this 22,700-metric-tonne-per-year line, Reynolds said, it will be operating at 100 pct of its consolidated primary aluminum capacity of 695,000 tonnes per year. Reynolds said work will commence on the potline restart in the near future and it is expected that actual metal production will begin on September one. The company said the start up was necessitated by continuing strong demand for aluminum and dwindling worldwide inventories, and that the metal is needed to supply Reynolds' various fabricating businesses. Reuter 
CHINA GETS 97.4 MLN DLR WORLD BANK LOAN

The World Bank said it approved a 97.4 mln dlr loan for China to help boost fertilizer output in order to increase agricultural production. The 20-year loan supports a project aimed at improving the efficiency of medium-scale fertilizer plants through technical renovations and energy conservation, the bank said. It said the project also seeks to reduce agricultural nutrient imbalances by building the capacity for phosphate fertilizer production and to improve institutional efficiency by introducing modern economic, financial and operational systems and techniques. Reuter 
REYNOLDS METALS TO RESTART IDLE POTLINE

Reynolds Metals Co said it plans to restart the last idle potline at its Troutdale, Ore., primary aluminum plant. With the restart of this 22,700 tonne a year production line, Reynolds said it will be operating at 100 pct of its consolidated primary aluminum capacity of 695,000 tonnes per year. Reynolds said work on the restart will begin in the near future and it is expected that actual metal production will begin September 1. The company said the start-up was necessitated by continuing strong demand for aluminum and dwindling worldwide inventories, and that the metal is needed to supply Reynolds' various fabricating businesses. Reuter 
ALLEGHENY <ALGH.O> FORMING SUBSIDIARY

Allegheny and Western Energy Corp said it was forming a subsidiary to market gas to smaller users in West Virginia. The company also said it completed negotiations to sell between 10 and 12 mln cubic feet of gas per day to a large, unspecified East Coast utility. Interstate markets will become part of the subsidiary's operations, the company said. Reuter 
PPG INDUSTRIES <PPG> TO BUILD TAIWAN PLANT

PPG Industries said it signed an agreement with Formosa Plastics Group to build and operate a continuous strand fiber glass manufacturing plant in Taiwan. The 50-50 joint venture of PPG and Nan Ya Plastics, a corporation of Formosa Plastics Group, is subject to approval of Taiwan governmental agencies. PPG said the plant, scheduled to begin operating in early 1989, will have an initial annual capacity of 20,000 metric tons. Reuter 
CHINA GETS WORLD BANK LOAN FOR FERTILIZER

The World Bank said it approved a 97.4 mln dlr loan for China to help boost fertilizer output in order to increase agricultural production. The 20-year loan supports a project aimed at improving the efficiency of medium-scale fertilizer plants through technical renovations and energy conservation, the bank said. It said the project also seeks to reduce agricultural nutrient imbalances by building the capacity for phosphate fertilizer production and to improve institutional efficiency by introducing modern economic, financial and operational systems and techniques. Reuter 
TRW INC <TRW> SETS PACT WITH TEKTRONIX <TEK>

TRW Inc's TRW Componenets International Inc unit said it set a pact with Tektronix Inc's TriQuint Semiconductor unit to jointly supply gallium arsenide devices for space applications. As part of the agreement, the two companyies are working together to establish procedures to produce class "S" (a stringent military specification for space use) gallium arsenide components. TriQuint makes gallilum arsenide integrated circuits. Reuter 
USX <X> UNIT OFFERS STEEL PRICES DIRECTORY

USX Corp said its USS division has available a comprehensive sheet steel selection and pricing system detailing the company's full line of products. The company said it was the first complete update in 25 years. The new prices in the book are effective after Oct One, 1987, the company said. Reuter 
INSPIRATION CUTS COPPER PRICE 0.50 CT TO 74 CTS

Inspiration Consolidated Copper Co, a subsidiary of Inspiration Resources Corp, said it is lowering its base price for full-plate copper cathodes by 0.50 cent to 74.0 cents a lb, effective immediately. Reuter 
CHINA ADDS CORN TO COMMITMENTS - USDA

China has added 30,000 tonnes of U.S. corn to its previous commitments, according to the U.S. Agriculture Department's latest Export Sales report. The report, covering transactions in the week June 11, the additional corn resulted from changes in destinations. Total corn commitments for delivery in the 1986/87 season amount to 1,083,400 tonnes. Reuter 
MCDONNELL DOUGLAS <MD>, SIEMENS SIGN MEMORANDUM

McDonnell Douglas Corp and Siemens AG <SIEG.F> said they signed a memorandum of understanding dealing with the AH-64 Apache helicopter. They said the memorandum deals with depot maintenance of the U.S. Army's helicopters based in West Germany and a joint study of the potential development and production of the helicopter for the West German Army. Reuter 
NYSE TO DISCLOSE IMBALANCES TWICE TOMORROW

The New York Stock Exchange said in connection with the triple expirations of stock index futures, options and individual options it will disclose imbalances in 50 major stocks tomorrow at 0900 EDT and again at 1530 EDT. The information will be disclosed via financial news services. Reuter 
SENATOR DEFENDS U.S. MANDATORY FARM CONTROL BILL

Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, defended his controversial mandatory supply control farm bill and said U.S. farmers should be allowed to vote in a referendum whether they approve of the proposal. The Harkin proposal would set loan rates of 5.17 dlrs per bushel for wheat, 3.77 dlrs for corn and 9.32 dlrs for soybeans, all to be put in effect under strict controls on planted acreage reductions. Present loan rates are 2.28 dlrs for wheat, 1.92 for corn, and effectively 4.56 for soybeans. Also under the plan, the U.S. would seek a world market sharing cartel with the European Community and other exporting nations, to share-out export markets, Harkin said during the first of several Senate Agriculture subcommittee hearings examining farm programs. Harkin made the following claims in testimony on his "Family Farm Act." -- The mandatory control bill would increase farm income and reduce government spending on agriculture. -- Harkin said his policy of high price supports would not ruin U.S. agricultural exports as critics claim, but would increase overall revenue from exports. This would be done by seeking agreement among major exporting countries including the European Community on market sharing at agreed high prices. Sen. Christopher Bond, R-Mo., countered during the hearing that such a grain export cartel is not workable. -- Harkin acknowledged that higher commodity price supports would be passed onto consumers, but he said high food prices stem more from "gouging" by food processing companies than from high farm product prices. Harkin cited what he termed "excessive" net returns on equity over five years of 33.4 pct at Kellogg, 31.9 pct Monfort, 22.8 pct Nabisco, 22.8 pct ConAgra, 21.2 pct H.J. Heinz, 19.1 pct Ralston Purina, 17.2 pct Pillsbury and 16.7 pct Quaker Oats. -- Harkin said a "legitimate" concern about his bill would be the impact of higher prices on livestock producers. He said as a transition to the higher prices, he would allow livestock producers to purchase Commodity Credit Corp. grain stocks for three years. Thereafter, livestock farmers would benefit from a "predictable and stable" grain price, he said. -- Harkin said that under his policy approach farm participation would be no more "mandatory" than the current farm program. He said farmers now must participate in farm programs in order to receive credit for planting and to protect farm income. Reuter 
U.S.-CANADA TIES SEEN WORSE WITHOUT TRADE PACT

U.S.-Canadian ties could worsen if the two nations are unable to reach a free trade pact, according to a study published by two nonpartisan public policy research groups. The Cato Institute of Washington and the Fraser Institute of Vancouver said removing the remaining tariffs on cross border trade would benefit both countries. But Cato chairman William Niskanen added "the two nations' generally harmonious trade relations are probably not sustainable without a new agreement." The United States and Canada, whose cross-border trade totaled about 125 billion dlrs last year, have been holding talks since last June on a pact to end the few trade barriers remaining between their two countries. The U.S. put a deadline on the talks of October 1, but both sides have said an agreement is likely despite tough bargaining remained. Niskanen said if no pact is reached, bilateral trade ties could deteriorate because of Congressional pressure on President Reagan to implement trade laws more aggressively, and this could hit some Canadian trade practices. He noted Canada is seeking foreign investment in its auto industry, which could put strains on the considerable bilateral free trade in U.S. and Canadian autos and parts. Niskanen also said the Canadian government is vulnerable to a resurgence of economic nationalism which could restrict U.S. exports to Canada. A free trade pact, backed by President Reagan and Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, would open new markets for Canada and enable its industries to achieve economies of scale, which would also help it widen exports worldwide, he said. It would also increase the gross national products of both countries. Niskanen said the goal of a pact should be to end all tariffs within 10 years, lower subsidies on exports, set rules for trade in services and investments, end curbs on government procurement and agree ways to resolve trade disputes. Reuter 
OECD URGES ACTION TO CUT U.S. BUDGET DEFICIT

The United States should take urgent action to cut its crippling budget deficit, including possible reductions in non-defense spending, higher taxes and curbs on growth of the defense budget, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said. The OECD, in its semi-annual review of the world economy, said a failure of the Reagan Administration and Congress quickly to agree on measures to cut the deficit "could seriously affect confidence, both in the United States and elsewhere." It predicted that the federal deficit in fiscal 1987, running until September 30 this year, would substantially overshoot both the Balanced Budget Act's target of 144 billion dlrs and official U.S. Estimates in February of 175 billion. "The OECD projection, which is based on assumptions of slower growth, higher interest rates and actual data for the first half of the financial year, is for a deficit of about 190 billion dollars," it said. While this would be 30 billion lower than last year's deficit, much of the improvement would be due to corporate tax increases being introduced before income tax cuts take effect. The U.S. Economic growth rate is expected to edge up to 2.75 pct next year from 2.5 pct this year and last. In contrast to the last two years, more competitive exports boosted by the fall in the dollar should help GNP growth. Unemployment should continue to fall slowly as the service sector continues to create jobs. But inflation appears to be heading higher, partly due to the lower dollar, with consumer prices forecast to rise four pct this year and 4.5 pct next year after just 2.1 pct in 1986. "Monetary and fiscal policy appear to be the key factors behind the avoidance of recession," the report said. The current account balance of payments deficit is expected to be still around a high 125 billion dlrs next year, after hitting a projected record 147.25 billion this year, it said. In Canada economic growth is expected to pick up slightly to around 2.75 pct in 1988 from 2.5 pct this year, but will still be below levels seen in recent years. Inflation is expected to slow to 3.5 pct next year from 3.75 pct this year, unemployment should edge down to nine pct in 1988 from 9.25 pct this year. Canada's current account deficit is projected to shrink to around four billion U.S. Dlrs this year and to remain at about that level in 1988. Reuter 
PLAYBOY <PLA> GETS LICENSING PACT IN INDIA

Playboy Enterprises Inc said its Playboy Licensing unit has entered into an agreement with Fashionport Private Ltd of India to market Playboy and Playmate fashions and accessories in India, the Middle East and several Eastern bloc countries. Fashionport will produce men's and women's apparel, leather garments, footwear, small leather goods and accessories, it said. Fashionport is based in Bombay, India. No other details were available. Reuter 
FED DATA SUGGEST NO CHANGE IN MONETARY POLICY

New U.S. Banking data suggest the Federal Reserve is guiding monetary policy along a steady path and is not signalling any imminent change of course, economists said. But they also said that if money supply growth remains weak, as this week's unexpected eight billion dlr M-1 decline suggests it may, this could influence the Fed to loosen its credit reins and move toward a more accommodative monetary policy. A Reuter survey of 17 money market economists produced a forecast of a 600 mln dlr M-1 decline for the week ended June 8, with estimates ranging from a gain of one billion dlrs to a decline of four billion. Instead, M-1 fell eight billion dlrs to 745.7 billion dlrs at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. Coming on the heels of a 4.3 billion decrease in M-1 for the week ended June 1, this means the nation's money supply has fallen more than 12 billion dlrs in the past two weeks, economists said. "M-1 has hit an air pocket of weakness," said Bill Sullivan of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. While M-1 may have lost its significance as an indicator of economic growth, Sullivan said Fed officials might be concerned the latest drop in M-1 means another month of sluggish growth in the broader monetary aggregates, M-2 and M-3, which are seen as better gauges of economic growth. Latest monthly M-2 and M-3 data showed that as of May, both measures were growing at rates below the bottom of the Fed's 5-1/2 to 8-1/2 pct target ranges. If money growth does not accelerate, Fed officials, concerned that this indicates economic growth is flagging, could turn toward easier monetary policy, economists said. "Does this mean that the Fed abandons its current open market position? No," Sullivan said. "But does this mean the end of tightening for the time being? Definitely yes." Economists said average adjusted discount window borrowings of 385 mln dlrs for the latest two-week bank statement period were lower than they had expected. Most believed the Fed had targetted a two-week borrowings average of around 500 mln dlrs. But they said that if it had not been for a large one-day net miss in the Fed's reserve projections, the higher borrowings target would probably have been reached. A drop in May U.S. Housing starts and continued weakness in auto sales show key sectors of the U.S. Economy are lagging, while a recent modest 0.3 pct gain in May producer prices has helped dispel inflation fears, Slifer said. "If this continues, we can entertain the notion of Fed easing at some point," he said. Other economists said the Fed would probably pay little attention to weak money supply growth. "It has been a number of years since M-1 has given good signs of what's going on in the economy," one said. "I don't think M-1 shows that the economy is falling apart and the Fed should ease." Economists agreed a stable dollar will continue to be a prerequisite for any move by the Fed toward easier monetary policy. They said the Fed is reluctant to lower short-term rates for fear this would spur expectations of a weaker dollar and higher inflation which would push up long-term yields and choke off econmomic growth. But Sullivan said the dollar has been steady since late April. "The Fed has to determine if this represents a fundamental change for the dollar. If it does, then this gives them more room to ease," he said. REUTER 
SHULTZ WARNS ASEAN OF LOOMING TRADE PROBLEM

U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz warned members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) they could no longer rely on increased exports to the U.S. For growth. "Given the importance of exports, particularly export manufactures, to all of your countries, you are going to have to work hard to diversify your markets," he said. "While you may be able to maintain your current market share in the U.S., You clearly will not be able to look to the U.S. To take major increases in your exports," he added. Shultz told the foreign ministers of Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand the U.S. Would cut its huge foreign trade deficit more rapidly than many now believed. He said ASEAN's looming trade problems would not necessarily stem from protectionist legislation now being contemplated by Congress, "but simply because of the adjustments the U.S. Economy will have to make in order to service our large and growing external debt." Shultz said the U.S. Deficit had resulted not from falling exports but from higher imports that had fuelled world growth. REUTER 
TAIWAN BUYS 32,000 TONNES OF U.S. SOYBEANS

The joint committee of Taiwan's soybean importers awarded a contract to Cargill Inc of Minneapolis, Minnesota, for supply of one 32,000 tonne cargo of U.S. Soybeans, a committee spokesman told Reuters. The cargo, priced at 249.10 U.S. Dlrs per tonne c and f Taiwan, is set for delivery before July 7, he said. The committee cancelled a tender for another cargo because the prices offered by U.S. Suppliers were too high, he added. REUTER 
U.S. BUDGET CHIEF THREATENS VETO, PREDICTS DEAL

U.S. Budget Director James Miller said President Reagan would veto the Democrat-controlled Congress' new budget plan out of hand -- but offered to compromise on raising revenues. "If that budget comes down it will vetoed out of hand, I can tell you that," Miller said on a morning television show. He said Reagan would not accept the 19 bln dlr tax increase in Congress' proposal but said "keep in mind the president has proposed certain revenues in his budget. "They're not taxes," Miller said. "They are user charges and asset sales. I think there is some room there we can sit down and talk with the Democrats about." Miller said he believed a compromise could be worked out but he said the administration would need assurance that whatever compromise it accepted would indeed by passed by Congress. Miller also said in the interview that he did not believe the new U.S. protection of 11 Kuwaiti tanker ships in the Persian Gulf would require a supplemental request to Congress later for more defense money. Reuter 
U.S. BUDGET DIRECTOR PREDICTS COMPROMISE

Budget Director James Miller said President Reagan would veto the Democrat-controlled Congress' new budget -- but offered to compromise on raising revenues. "If that budget comes down it will be vetoed out of hand, I can tell you that," Miller said on NBC's "Today" program. He said Reagan would not accept the 19 billion dlr tax increase in Congress' proposal but said "keep in mind the president has proposed certain revenues in his budget. "They're not taxes," Miller said. "They are user charges and asset sales. I think there is some room there we can sit down and talk with the Democrats about." Reuter 
CENTRAL FUND CANADA <CEF> PLANS U.S. ISSUE

Central Fund of Canada Ltd said it filed a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for a U.S. offering of 3,250,000 units, each consisting of two class A shares and one warrant. Central Fund, a specialized investment holding company, said net proceeds will be used mainly to buy gold and silver bullion. The issue will be underwritten by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc and Wood Gundy Inc. Reuter 
OSHAP TECHNOLOGIES <OSHSF.O> IN JOINT VENTURE

OSHAP Technologies Ltd said it formed a joint venture with the Regional Investment Co of the Wallon Region, a Belgian government-controlled investment company. It said the agreement is subject to approval of the Israeli Controller of Foreign Exchange. Under the agreement OSHAP will establish a new corporation which will own all of OSHAP's operations in Europe, including its manufacturing facility in Antwerp, Belgium and distribution rights to OSHAP's other products in Europe. The newly formed company will acquire from the Regional Investment Co of the Walloon Region (SPIW) about 88 pct of Pegard Productics S.A. and SPIW will be entitled to receive for its interest in Pegard about 37 pct of the outstanding shares of the new company. In addition, if the National Investment Co of Belgium, a Belgium government controlled investment company, chooses to participate in the transaction, it will be entitled to receive a 4.7 pct stake in the new company for its 12 pct interest in Pegard. Reuter 
BYRD URGES REAGAN TO GET INVOLVED IN BUDGET

Senate majority leader Robert Byrd urged President Reagan to negotiate with the Democratic-led Congress over budget matters. He told reporters that Reagan and Republicans failed to help write the budget expected to get final congressional approval next week. He said it was time for Reagan to move from his "hobby horse" and get into the negotiations over tax and defence matters, the two issues dividing Reagan and Democrats. Reagan has said he would veto any bill implementing the suggested 19 billion dlrs in 1988 taxes in the budget. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS TRADE BILL FACES VETO IN PRESENT FORM

President Reagan said he would veto a House-passed trade bill requiring mandatory retaliation for "unfair trade" if it reached its desk in its present form. In a statement at a White House meeting with Senate Republicans on the legislation, he said: "I would have no choice but to veto that bill in its present form." He said the measure "would move us exactly in the wrong direction" towards high tariffs, trade barriers, trade distorting subsidies, slow growth and crimped world markets, and would destroy jobs. Reuter 
TEXACO <TXC> CANADA TO RAISE CRUDE OIL POSTINGS

Texaco Inc's Texaco Canada said it will raise postings for its Edmonton/Swann Hills crude by 24 canadian cts a barrel, effective June 20. The company said the new posting for Edmonton/Swann Hills will be 25.60 dlrs a barrel. The price hike follows a round of crude oil price increases started late June 17 by Sun Co. The other major canadian crude suppliers raised prices June 18. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ARRANGE SYSTEM REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve is likely to add temporary reserves to the banking system this morning by executing system repurchase agreements, economists said. The Fed faces a need to add a large volume of reserves this statement period to offset a drain caused by rising Treasury balances at the Fed after the June 15 tax date. Most economists are predicting over-the-weekend system repurchases. But some, who see a smaller adding requirement, are forecasting a less aggressive combination of three- and six-day repos. Fed funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct, close to yesterday's 6.81 pct average. Reuter 
NYSE SEEKS COMMENT FROM TESORO PETROLEUM <TSO>

The New York Stock Exchange said Tesoro Petroleum had replied that it did not comment on unusual market activity or rumors when asked by the NYSE about the company's stock rise. The NYSE said it had asked the company to issue a public statement indicating whether there are any corporate developments that may explain the unusual activity. Tesoro's shares rose 7/8 to 14-1/2 in morning trading. Reuter 
AMEX STARTS TRADING SHERWOOD GROUP <SHD>

The American Stock Exchange said it has started trading the common stock of Sherwood Group Inc, which went public today. Reuter 
U.S. COURT UPHOLDS APEX DECISION FAVORING NYMEX

The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld a lower court decision dismissing a suit by Apex Oil Co against the New York Mercantile Exchange and several oil companies. The Court, however, ruled that Apex Oil could pursue anititrust and commodities market manipulation allegations against Belcher Oil Co, a unit of Coastal Corp <CGP>. Apex Oil, primarily a trading company, charged that several companies, including Belcher, and NYMEX conspired to force it to deliver heating oil it had sold on the mercantile exchange, knowing Apex could not make full delivery. The NYMEX ordered Apex to deliver four mln barrels of heating oil sold via a February 1982 heating oil contract. Apex eventually fulfilled this obligation but claimed damages. Richard Wiener, attorney for Apex at Cadwalader Wickersham and Taft, said the company has not yet decided whether to pursue its case against Belcher Oil. The NYMEX, meanwhile, has a counterclaim pending against Apex Oil, seeking an unspecified amount of attorney's fees and 15 mln dlrs in punitive damages, according to a NYMEX spokeswoman. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS INDIA 929 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it has extended three loans to India totalling 929 mln dlrs, for two projects in the power sector, and one for water supply and sewage. One power project will be supported by a 485 mln dlr loan, the bank said. The other power project, supported by a 375 mln dlr loan, plans to aid in the first phase of a power generation complex in eastern India, the bank said. The third project, which is being supported by a bank loan of 53 mln dlrs and an International Development Association loan of 16 mln dlrs, hopes to increase water supply to Madras. Reuter 
U.S. REFUSES PARTS OF TWO AUSTRALIA BEEF CARGOES

U.S. Agriculture Department inspectors have refused entry to parts of two lots of Australian beef because of pesticide residues, a spokeswoman for the department said. She said USDA has notified Australia, which assured it that stricter controls would be implemented. The Australian government had already imposed residue controls and it is believed the meat with the presticide residues was already in the pipeline before the controls were put in place, the spokeswoman said. There have been five other cases of Australian meat which had residue levels above U.S. allowable limits this year, she said. Reuter 
WORLD BANK TO LOAN JAMAICA 104 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it approved four loans to Jamaica totalling 104 mln dlrs to assist that country with an economic structural adjustment program, a sugar industry rehabilitation scheme and a population and health project. The bank said two loans will support Jamaica's structural adjustment program -- a 40 mln dlr loan for trade and financial sector adjustment and a 20 mln dlr loan for the public enterprise sector. The 40 mln dlr loan is designed to raise the performance of exports and industry and strengthen the financial sector. Reuter 
WORLD BANK TO LOAN JAMAICA 104 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it approved loans to Jamaica totalling 104 mln dlrs to assist it with an economic structural adjustment program, a sugar industry rehabilitation scheme and a population and health project. The bank said two loans will support Jamaica's structural adjustment program -- a 40 mln dlr loan for the trade and financial sector and a 20 mln dlr loan for the public enterprise sector. The bank said a 34 mln dlr loan is to help Jamaica's sugar industry become self-sufficient and meet both domestic demand and the export demand of the United States and European Community. The fourth loan, for 10 mln dlrs, is to improve family planning programs and health care. Reuter 
U.S. OIL PRICES STRONG AHEAD OF OPEC MEETING

U.S. crude oil prices are at their highest level in more than a year ahead of next week's OPEC meeting, even though most industry analysts do not expect any policy changes from the session. They said prices, which have steadily climbed since the organization's accord in December, have risen on technical factors within the market and concerns about supplies because of the Iran-Iraq war, which could disrupt deliveries from the Gulf. The U.S. benchmark crude West Texas Intermediate is trading around 20.55 dlrs in the July contract on New York Mercantile Exchange's energy futures and in the spot market. That is its highest level since January 1986. OPEC conference president Rilwanu Lukman, who is Nigeria's oil minister, said Friday he expects the meeting in Vienna to be brief and calm and that OPEC's current price and production agreement may only need a slight review. Although most industry experts expect just a reaffirmation of the December agreement, oil prices continue to climb due to a desire to hedge positions in case of any surprises. Analysts expect the higher prices to continue until soon after the OPEC meeting. At that point, barring any increased tension in the Gulf or changes in OPEC's policies, prices should begin easing. "OPEC will probably not do anything it hasn't already agreed to in December because oil prices are firm," said John Hill, a vice president at Merrill Lynch Futures. OPEC agreed in December to maintain official oil prices at 18 dlrs a barrel and raise the group's production ceiling to 16.6 mln barrels per day in the third quarter and to 18.3 mln barrels in the fourth quarter. This agreement helped send prices sharply higher, rising from 15 dlrs a barrel in early December. Several OPEC members who are price hawks, including Iran, Algeria and Libya, will seek a higher official price and a reduction in output. "And if U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude continues to trade above 20 dlrs a barrel, there is a greater chance that OPEC will raise its official 18 dlrs price," said Nauman Barakat, analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co. But most analysts expect the more moderate producers, such as Saudi Arabia, to block any changes in policy. "The meeting will be a non-event with no change in the official prices because OPEC, and in particular the Saudis, are committed to stabilizing the market," said Rosario Ilacqua, analyst with L.F. Rothschild. However, some analysts said OPEC may need to hold a meeting in September to re-evaluate market conditions. Overproduction by OPEC will become a real problem in the fourth quarter when the quota is raised to 18.3 mln barrels a day and Iraq's pipeline through Turkey brings another 500,000 barrels to the market each day, said John Lichtblau, president of Petroleum Industry Ressearch Foundation. Most expect Saudi Arabia to oppose a price increase at this meeting but many look for an increase by year-end to 20 dlrs to offset the decline in the dollar. Oil prices are denominated throughout the world in dollars, so as the currency declines, producers receive less money for their oil. "The only real production restraint in OPEC is Saudi Arabia," said Sanford Margoshes, analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "In the second half of the year we expect the Saudis not to produce at their 4.1 mln barrel a day quota and therefore act as a vehicle to stablize the market and pave the way for a two dlrs a barrel price increase at the December 1987 meeting," he said. One uncertain factor is the course of the Iran-Iraq war. "The wild card is the increased tensions in the Persian Gulf," said Frank Knuettel, analyst with Prudential-Bache Securites. Oil tankers taking oil from Iraq and Kuwait have been regular targets for Iranian planes. The Reagan administration is planning to put Kuwait tankers under the protection of the U.S. flag, with naval escorts. "Extra (oil) inventories are needed during a time of crisis like this, and just general nervousness over an incident that could disrupt oil supplies drives prices up," Knuettel said. Reuter 
UNOCAL<UCL> SCRAPS FLUIDIZED BED BOILER PROJECT

Unocal Corp said it told the U.S. Treasury Department that it will not include fluidized bed combustion technology, a method for the more efficient burning of solids, at its Parachute Creek oil shale project in Colorado due to high costs. Under a 1985 agreement with the now-defunct U.S. Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said it would study using the technology at the oil shale plant. In return the company would have been eligible for 500 mln dlrs in loan gaurantees and price supports from the U.S. Treasury Department, which took over the contract from the Synthetic Fuels Corp, Unocal said. Unocal said its studies showed the cost for the fluidized bed combustion facility would have exceeded 352 mln dlrs, compared with an original estimate of 260 mln dlrs. The fluidized bed facility would have provided heat and electricity for the oil shale project, Unocal said. Last year's fall in oil prices and the loss of investment tax credit under the Tax Reform Act made the project uneconomical even with government price supports and loan guarantees, Unocal said. The Parachute Creek oil shale plant produces about 4,000 to 5,000 barrels per day of crude shale oil, Unocal said. Reuter 
OPTIONS ON VIACOM <VIA> ADJUSTED BY DIVIDEND

Options on Viacom International stock have been adjusted to account for the payment of a dividend on preferred stock, the Chicago Board Options Exchange said. Trading in Viacom stock at the New York Stock Exchange was halted this morning, after the company announced a preferred stock dividend at a rate of 0.025834 of preferred stock for each preferred share held. The Chicago options exchange said all exercises of the options as of today require delivery or receipt of 30 shares of preferred stock, 20 shares of common, a cash payment of 4,322.37 dlrs and an undetermined cash payment in lieu of fractional shares from the preferred dividend payment. The options symbol for Viacom will be changed to VIY from VIZ as of June 22, the exchange said. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS HUNGARY 70 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it approved a 70 mln dlr loan to Hungary to help finance a 833.1 mln dlr telecommunications project. The Bank noted that Hungary, which until recently had given telecommunications low priority, recognized that inadequate telecommunications are a serious constraint to economic development and reform. The project extends through 1991 and will help Magyar Posta, the state enterprise overseeing the telecommunications sector, meet its long-term development goals. Reuter 
ALCAN RAISES ALUMINUM PRICES TWO CENTS A LB

Alcan Aluminum Corp, a subsidiary of Alcan Aluminium Ltd, said it increased its U.S. primary aluminum prices by two cents a lb, effective yesterday. The new prices are 72 cents a lb for ingot and 80 cents for extrusion billet, the company said. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS UGANDA 13 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it has loaned Uganda 13 mln dlrs through the International Development Association (IDA), the bank's concessionary lending affiliate. The IDA loan will support a project that hopes to preserve the country's natural forests and meet its demand for wood products by rehabilitating Uganda's forestry management agency, the bank said. It also said the project plans to increase the area and management of protected forests, establish pilot wood farms and nurseries, and rehabilitate soft wood plantations. Reuter 
LIPOSOME <LIPO.O> FORMS CANADIAN SUBSIDIARY

Liposome Co Inc at its annual meeting announced the formation of a Canadian subsidiary, Canadian Liposome Co Ltd. It said the company cements a relationship with University of British Columbia researcher Pieter Cullis and his scientific group who are developing anti-cancer products for Liposome. The company also said lead bankers completed Liposome's stock offering of one mln shares on June 11 at 6.875 dlrs a share. Liposome said it netted 7,388,750 dlrs. Reuter 
SUNRISE MEDICAL <SNMD.O> SEES 4TH QTR LOSS

Sunrise Medical Inc said it will close three facilities and take a fourth quarter charge of 625,000 dlrs, or 15 cents per share, which will result in a fourth quarter loss. The company said net earnings for the year will be below the 1.8 mln dlrs earned last year. It also noted earnings for the year will be affected by a 13 cent per share operating loss from its Sunrise Medical GmbH unit in West Germany. It said the closures, to be completed by the end of 1987 year, are part of a cost reduction and plant consolidation program. The company said plants to closed are the Trans-Aid factory in Turbotville, Penn., the Minivator factory in Dunstable, England and the Sunrise Medical GmbH distribution facility in Bischofsheim, West Germany. The Turbotville and Dunstable operations will be folded into other Sunrise facilities, while the German distribution business will be turned over to local distributors, the company said. The German operation will be shut down effective June 26. The company said it does not anticipate any non-recurring or extraordinary charges in fiscal 1988. Reuter 
COLOMBIA HELPFUL BUT COFFEE QUOTAS UNCERTAIN--U.S.

A U.S. government trade official responsible for coffee policy said prospects for an accord on coffee quotas are still uncertain despite recent Colombian efforts to bridge differences between producers and consumers. Jon Rosenbaum, an assistant U.S. trade representative just back from trade talks in Colombia, said most producing countries now accept some sort of standardized criteria must be agreed to reintroduce coffee quotas. "There is one country which evidently still does not," Rosenbaum said in an obvious reference to Brazil, which has been negative recently on a reintroduction of quotas. Rosenbaum said because of the stance of Brazil the outlook for an agreement to reintroduce coffee quotas at the September International Coffee Organization meeting is hard to predict. He said that during the visit to Bogota he held technical discussions with Colombian officials. While he did not meet with Jorge Cardenas, head of the Colombian coffee producers federation, who was in Europe, Cardenas left a "positive letter," Rosenbaum said. The Cardenas letter responded to a U.S. letter last month which praised Colombia for trying to find a compromise formula for the reintroduction of quotas, but outlined several concerns with the technical details of the Colombian plan. Rosenbaum could not be reached later in the day for comment on a new formula for calculating ICO quotas agreed to by European coffee roasters and traders. Dutch coffee trade association chairman Frits van Horick said in Amsterdam the new formula is based on six year moving averages and would give Brazil an unchanged export quota for the remaining to years of the current coffee agreement. The U.S. has said it will not agree to any coffee quotas unless "objective criteria" which reflect recent changes in the coffee market are used to set export limits. Reuter 
CCC CREDIT GUARANTEES TO EL SALVADOR REALLOCATED

The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has reallocated 1.3 mln dlrs in credit guarantees originally granted to cover the sale of protein meals to El Salvador so it may buy rice, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The action reduces the guarantee line authorized for sales of protein meals to 12.7 mln dlrs and creates a rice credit guarantee line of 1.3 mln dlrs, the department said. All sales under the credit guarantee lines must be registered and exports completed by September 30, the department said. Reuter 
INTERNATIONAL LPG PRICES STEADY IN QUIET MARKET

International LPG prices were little changed in the past week, barely affected by the excitement on the advent of OPEC's mid-year meeting, traders and industry sources said. "If the OPEC decides to increase crude oil production," a traders said, "LPG supplies will be up without corresponding rise in demand." Petrochemical buyers were sidelined, after their foray in the market early in june, they said. An industry meeting in Dublin this week also drew many market participants away from the trading desk, they added. Algeria has moved at least two cargoes of propane to the U.S. Gulf, keeping Mediterranean prices steady, traders said. In the Mideast Gulf, propane appeared easing slightly, after a major U.S. oil company bought propane on formula which netted back about 123 dlrs, cif Mideast Gulf, which was two dlrs below Saudi Arabia's government selling price (gsp), industry sources said. Delivered propane to Japan was quoted at gsp plus 19 dlrs and butane at gsp plus 25 dlrs, the traders said. Reuter 
U.S. BUDGET DUE FOR APPROVAL, TRUCE POSSIBLE

After battling President Reagan all year, Congress is about to pass a trillion dollar 1988 budget that sets the stage for even fiercer fighting over its tax and defence policies. But when the dust settles, congressional budget analysts say, Reagan and the Democratic opposition may finally sit down at a "budget summit" to call a truce and work out a deal over implementing the budget he opposes. "I think he essentially will (negotiate)," said a prominent House leader who did not want to be identified. "The ball is in his court ... We've done everything we could to make a summit." The Democrat budget plan calls for $19 billion in new taxes next year, $64 billion over three years, and is set to be passed by the Democratic-led Congress next week. It would cut next year's deficit by about $37 billion to $134 billion. On Tuesday last week, Reagan said he would consider talks, except on defence or taxes, but three days later argued that Congress would first have to bend even further. Reuter 
KISSINGER FORESEES ROUGH TIME FOR U.S. ECONOMY

Former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said the U.S. Government is disregarding the future of its economy and could within three to five years "find itself on a situation similar to those of indebted Latin American countries." "The United States will not be able to service its debt without austerity," he told a news conference. The former secretary also criticised his country's foreign policy. "We have so many problems of our own at home that we should not be sending people like me and many others around the world to tell other countries how to handle their problems." Kissinger came to Brazil on a private visit to make the opening speech at the Sixth World Congress of the International Federation of Purchasing and Materials Management, to be held here June 24 through 26. During his visit he is to call on President Jose Sarney, Foreign Minister Roberto Abreu Sodre, Finance Minister Luiz Carlos Bresser Pereira and Chamber of Deputies chairman Ulysses Guimaraes, Monday in Brasilia. Asked to comment on the economic measures imposed by the Brazilian government last week, which included a new price freeze up to 90 days, Kissinger said: "I have only read a summary of the plan. In principle, it seems like a reasonable plan which could succeed and lead to an agreement with the International Monetary Fund." Reuter 
KUWAIT SEEN WANTING TO LEASE SOME U.S. TANKERS

The United States said Kuwait was discussing plans to lease privately-owned U.S. tankers to transport oil through the Gulf in addition to putting some of its own vessels under American flags. State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley, who made the disclosure about the tankers, also told reporters the United States expects to conclude very soon a favorable arrangement with Saudi Arabia concerning expanded security cooperation in the Gulf. The two developments occur as the Reagan administration continued to come under fire in Congress for its plans to bring 11 Kuwaiti tankers under American flags. The move is designed to protect the tankers from Iranian attacks and ensure freedom of navigation in the strategic waterway but has raised fears on Capitol Hill that it will draw the United States into the seven-year-old Iran-Iraq War. "The Kuwaitis have discussed the possibility of chartering U.S. flag vessels with the Maritime Administration," Oakley said. She emphasized, however, that "if some charter arrangement could be worked out, it would not supplant the reflagging arrangement that we worked out with the Kuwaitis." In both cases, the ships would be eligible for U.S. Navy escort in the Gulf, she said. The Washington Post today quoted John Gaughan, administrator of the Martime Administration, as saying Kuwait has approached an American shipping company about the possibility of a charter. Gaughan said that earlier this week he told representatives of the company, whose identify he did not know, that chartered vessels flying the U.S. flag "would be protected," the newspaper reported. Concerning Saudi Arabia, Oakley said "we are moving forward in our talks ... on how we can tailor our efforts and security cooperation to facilitate our Gulf operations." Reuter 
U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FALL 896 MLN DLRS IN JUNE 10 WEEK,
FED SAYS




U.S. BUSINESS LOANS FELL 896 MLN DLRS

Business loans on the books of major U.S. banks, excluding acceptances, fell 896 mln dlrs to 275.61 billion in the week ended June 10, the Federal Reserve Board said. The Fed said that business loans including acceptances fell 546 mln dlrs to 278.12 billion dlrs. Reuter 
U.S. ASKS CONGRESS TO REVISE TARIFF CATEGORIES

The Administration asked Congress to replace the U.S. tariff schedule with a new system to bring it into line with international tariff categories, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said. The new system will add such items as fiber optics and more accurately define new composites, items not widely traded when the current schedule was devised some 30 years ago. Yeutter said the Harmonized System, as the new schedule is called, will change tariff categories and definitions to meet the present-day needs of exporters and importers, but they should pay about the same rates of duties. Yeutter said, "American exporters will find it far easier to deal with one standardized worldwide system than the variety of differing systems which they now face." He said the new system ended 12 years of multinational negotiations to create the unified tariff schedule. Yeutter said government and business moves are based on data from tariff schedules and the new system will improve knowledge of trade flows and the quality of decision-making. He said 56 nations pledged to bring their standards under the new system, with about half expected to join the system by January 1988. reuter 
ARGENTINA'S ALFONSIN MEETS IMF CHIEF CAMDESSUS

Argentine President Raul Alfonsin met for more than an hour with International Monetary Fund Managing Director Michel Camdessus, and Argentine economy minister Juan Sourrouille said the two men discussed Argentina's economy and its commercial bank financing package. Sourrouille told reporters that 91.5 pct of the 1.95 billion dlr loan, which forms the core of the package, has been subscribed. Citibank, the chairman of Argentina's bank advisory committee, said yesterday that subscriptions totalled about 91 pct. The IMF has said that a "critical mass" of bank commitments is needed before it will start disbursing the 1.83 billion dlr standby loan that it has approved in principle for Argentina. Asked what the IMF has stipulated as a critical mass, Sourrouille said, "That has not been defined but anywhere over 90 pct we are doing fine." Although most of the money has been subscribed, officials noted that about a third of Argentina's 350 creditor banks hold 93 pct of its debt. They are worried that it might take a long time to persuade the other banks to join the deal. Monetary sources said Alfonsin and Camdessus, who had not met before, mostly discussed Argentina's political and economic situation. Alfonsin, who is beginning a four-day private visit to the U.S., was in Philadelphia to speak to the private World Affairs Council, a non-partisan body dedicated to increasing public awareness of international affairs. In his speech, Alfonsin said economic integration is the only way for Latin America to overcome its current crisis. "This (economic integration) is probably the most audacious challenge facing Latin America this century, perhaps the most audacious of our history," he said. Reuter 
TENNECO <TGT> TO TRANSPORT GAS ON OPEN ACCESS

Tenneco Inc said Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co, its largest interstate natural gas pipeline, will transport natural gas under the open access rules of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, FERC. In open access, gas pipelines serve purely as a transport company, moving gas from suppliers to customers. Pipelines also transport its own gas to customers. Earlier this week, Transco Energy Co <T> rejected the FERC guidelines, saying it would not offer open access until the regulatory body offers a solution to the exposure it faces for gas it has bought but could not sell. The exposure faced by the industry stems from take or pay contracts, under which pipelines bought gas on long-term contracts they could not sell. The problem grew severe as customers won cheaper sources of gas because of open access. Some industry analysts speculated earlier this week that Tenneco might follow Transco's lead and close its pipelines to open-access because of the take-or-pay issue. But Tenneco today said open access "is one of the steps FERC is taking to restructure the gas industry in the U.S. FERC is moving the industry through this restructuring now, even before all transitional problems are solved." A spokesman said Tenneco faces 1.7 billion dlrs in exposure under the take-or-pay contracts, but he had no specific figure for Tennessee Gas, which runs 2,000 miles of pipelines from Louisiana and Texas up to New England. "We remain convinced that the most critical transitional issue facing the industry--take-or-pay--must be resolved by FERC in the near future. "A failure to do so could have grave consequences for the industry's continued ability to provide its customers with reliable natural gas," said Tennessee Gas Transmission Co president R.C. Thomas. Reuter 
U.S. ECONOMY SLOWDOWN RAISES RECESSION FEARS

The economy faces lackluster growth and the risk of recession this year if the recent improvement in U.S. exports should falter, economists say. Growth will slow sharply in the next months due to weakness in the key housing and auto sectors and could be further hampered unless consumer spending picks up, they say. "These factors raise the question: Is there enough strength to keep the economy from tipping into a recession?" said Lyle Gramley, chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association and a former Federal Reserve Board official. The Commerce Department said this week that the economy grew by a robust 4.8 pct annual rate in the first quarter, but a U.S. monetary official called it a weak report. Housing starts fell 2.7 pct in May, and consumer spending rose a weak 0.1 per cent. "Our two largest visible industries -- autos and housing -- are faltering, but exports are picking up some of the slack, " Martin Mauro, senior economist for Merrill Lynch Economics, told Reuters. Gramley said he is worried that consumer spending may slow because inflation is rising faster than real wages. To offset this, U.S. exports must continue to rise, returning enough jobs to the manufacturing sector to boost personal income and consumption, he says. "I expect to see enough improvement in real net exports to keep a recession from happening, but it is a close call," Gramley said. Federal Reserve Board Governor Martha Seger told reporters that the apparent strength in the 4.8 pct growth figure was the result of a temporary buildup in inventories that will not last and said the recovery was showing anemia. Seger said that with the recovery stumbling along, "The pace of the economy and the lack of robustness must be factored into monetary policy" - possibly a signal that the Fed will be accommodative. Most economists predict growth slower than the 3 pct forecast by the Reagan administration for 1987 and warn that if the dollar drops suddenly, higher inflation will result and add to the risk of a recession. Mauro said a 0.5 pct rise in industrial production in May came despite cutbacks in output in the auto industry, where an inventory overhang still exists. He says the boost in production came from smaller industries like paper, chemicals, and lumber which have improved sales overseas due to the drop in the dollar. "They are not going to be enough for any kind of surge in economic activity, but I think they will keep us out of a recession," Mauro said. In a speech to financial planners this week, Beryl Sprinkel, the chief White House economic adviser, predicted the trade deficit will continue to improve. "Prospects for continued economic growth through 1987 and into 1988 are still quite favorable," he said. But private economists raise concerns about a resurgence in inflation. Allen Sinai, chief economist at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., told Congress this week that inflation would rise to 4.5 to five pct this year and stay at that level through 1989 after a 1.1 pct increase in 1986. The rise is coming from a sharply lower dollar, higher oil and energy prices and rising prices for services, he said. "The lesson of history is that once the inflation genie gets out of the bottle, it continues to persist," he said, adding he would like the Fed to tighten credit. A major factor affecting inflation is the value of the dollar, which should continue to fall and feed inflation, says a prominent international banker. Rainer Gut, chairman of Credit Suisse, told the National Press Club that the dollar's downward trend against the yen and the mark will continue for years because the United States is the world's largest debtor nation. The Swiss banker said the economic indicators point to a further slackening of activity and called naive the belief that the five-year boom on world equity markets will go on forever. "It is very difficult to be optimistic," Gut said. Reuter 
UPTREND REMAINS INTACT FOR DEBT FUTURES

The six basis point rise of the past month in U.S. debt futures may be extended next week by a series of U.S. economic reports, analysts said, as long as the dollar holds firm. "Interest rates have declined by approximately 50 basis points over the last month, largely over indications that inflation is not as high as people had feared and the narrowing U.S. trade balance, in nominal terms," Samuel Kahan, chief financial economist with Kleinwort Benson Government Securities, said. Kahan said recent government reports have shown strength in the economy during the first quarter, but his concern is whether the U.S. economy will sustain that strength in the longer term. Weak U.S. economic growth could hurt the dollar, which has become more important to the direction of debt futures than the beneficial impact on interest rates of a sluggish economy. The median trade expectations for Tuesday's U.S. Consumer Price Index and Durable Goods reports are up 0.4 pct and down 1.5 pct, respectively. Meanwhile, the eight billion dlr drop in the M-1 money supply announced this week was "surprising, much larger than expected," according to Kahan. "Unless quickly reversed," such a trend "will ensure that June M-1 growth will be negative," Kahan said. Taken in conjunction with M-2 and M-3 aggregates which Kahan said have "slowed to a crawl, below Federal Reserve Board annual targets," the consequences could be a hint of economic weakness down the road, he said. Based on chart formations, T-bond futures may be poised for further gains, although the advance has been slowed recently, analysts said. September T-bonds "are up almost six points since about May 18," Merrill Lynch debt analyst Jim Duggan noted. September bond futures climbed from the low of 87 a month ago to over 93 in mid-June, Duggan said. While follow-through buying has aided the advance so far, and bouts of short covering have prohibited a slide through chart support, the rally in September T-bonds has been thwarted above the 93 level. "The 93 level is formidable resistance and must be taken out before this activity is anything other than a trading range market," Carroll McEntee and McGinley Futures debt analyst Brian Singer said. The dollar remains the key fundamental factor, and the U.S. currency has made little headway of late, analysts said. "The critical variable remaining in the market is the value of the dollar," Kahan said. Additional influences next week will be possible developments ahead of an OPEC members meeting, and the impact and size of the U.S. budget deficit, "although these will not be in the forefront of the market early next week," Kahan said. In looking ahead to the U.S. Treasury mini-refunding auctions of 24.25 billion in T-notes on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, Singer said the market will likely greet the results with little excitement. However, a successful auction could prove to be a turning point, depending on prevailing market psychology. Reuter 
WORLD BANK SEEKS MORE AGGRESSIVE DEBT ROLE

The World Bank is prepared to play a more aggressive role in promoting Third World development and easing the debt crisis, bank president Barber Conable said. "We must be realistic about the immediate prospects for an expansion in voluntary commercial bank lending, with the World Bank playing an even more vigorous role in the debt crisis," Conable said in an interview with Newsweek magazine. Conable said the bank must step in to help relieve the debt crisis, which has prompted a number of U.S. Commercial banks to write off a portion of their Third World loans. "Our plans include initiatives on the debt front, as well as greater emphasis on debt-equity swaps and the promotion of private investment in Third World countries through our affiliate, the International Finance Corporation," Conable said. "The bank is primarily a development institution, not a debt-management agency. But debt must be managed effectively or it hampers development." Conable defended his reorganisation plan for the bank, which he said was aimed at improving efficiency and limiting bureaucracy. He added environmental considerations would play a larger role in the evaluation of proposed projects. REUTER 
EC, U.S. REMAIN DIVIDED OVER PASTA DISPUTE

Top-level talks last week between the European Community (EC) and the United States failed to resolve a dispute over pasta which may provoke new trade frictions next month, diplomatic sources said. The U.S. Insists the EC complies with what it regards as an unambiguous ruling from the world trade body GATT and dismantles an export subsidy system which has led to Italy taking an increasing share of the U.S. Pasta market. The sources said the EC, which currently provides subsidies of around 16 cents a pound, offered a compromise in last week's talks in Brussels but that this was rejected by the U.S. U.S. Assistant Special Trade Representative Jim Murphy has returned to Washington ahead of a theoretical July 1 deadline for agreement, set last August when the two sides resolved a related dispute over EC restrictions on U.S. Citrus imports. The diplomatic sources said the citrus issue could be reopened if the pasta dispute was not solved quickly. It was also possible the U.S. Would reimpose a 40 pct tariff on EC pasta, lifted when the citrus row was settled. But the two sides may agree to extend the deadline for a few days as EC Commissioners Willy de Clercq and Frans Andriessen are due to visit Washington from July 7 to 10. REUTER 
ARGENTINE MINISTER TO SEEK RELEASE OF LOANS

Argentine Economy Minister Juan Sourrouille left at the weekend for the United States for talks with creditor banks and the IMF aimed at obtaining the release of new loans, the semi-official news agency Telam said. It said Sourrouille would urge the IMF to release a 480 mln dlrs compensatory loan for falling exports as well as the first two tranches of a standby loan, totalling 450 mln dlrs. Release of the funds from the standby loan has been delayed by Argentina's failure to win final approval to a 1.95 billion dlr loan from creditor banks, which was a condition for the IMF disbursement. Banks have pledged 97 pct of the 1.95 billion dlr loan but the IMF has not yet defined what amount constitutes the "critical mass," which is needed for release of the IMF funds and the funds from creditor banks. The president of Argentina's bank steering committee, William Rhodes of Citibank, said on Friday he thought the loan agreement with Argentina could be signed in August. Reuter 
HITACHI UNIT MAY WITHDRAW FROM U.S. MARKET

Hitachi Ltd of Japan's <HIT.T> Hitachi Electronic Devices (S) Pte Ltd, which suspended selling colour television tubes in the United States since January in anticipation of a "dumping duty," said that it may be pushed out of the U.S. Market if too high a final duty is assessed. A company spokesman said that the Commerce Department had assessed a temporary 1.52 pct duty on tubes made by his company. The department said it would assess final dumping duties by September 8. The company was Singapore's only exporter of colour television tubes to the U.S, he said. 
ALLIS-CHALMERS <AH> LISTING EXAMINED BY NYSE

The New York Stock Exhcange said it is reviewing the eligiblity for continued listing of the common stock and 5.875 dlrs cumulative convertible preferred stock, series C, of Allis-Chalmers Corp in view of its announcement that it has filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the Federal bankruptcy code. Reuter 
TEXAS AMERICAN ENERGY <COLD.O> TO RELEASE NEWS

Texas American Energy Corp said it will release information soon following the halt of its stock on the NASDAQ exchange. Reuter 
WORLD BANK CHIEF STRESSES THIRD WORLD GROWTH

The World Bank is prepared to play a more aggressive role in promoting Third World development, bank president Barber Conable said in a magazine interview. "Our plans include initiatives on the debt front, as well as greater emphasis on debt-equity swaps and the promotion of private investment in Third World countries through our affiliate, the International Financial Corporation," Conable told Newsweek International. Conable, who has just completed his first year as head of the World Bank, said the bank's mission remains the development of Third World nations. "The bank is primarily a development institution, not a debt-management agency. But debt must be managed effectively or it hampers development," he told Newsweek. Conable said the bank must step in to help relieve the debt crisis, which has prompted a number of U.S. commercial banks to write off a portion of their Third World loans. Conable defended his own reorganization plan for the World Bank, which he said was aimed at improving efficiency and limiting a growing bureaucracy. And he said environmental considerations will play a larger role in the evaluation of proposed projects. Reuter 
ARMISTICE ELUDES EC AND U.S. IN SPAGHETTI WAR

Talks between the European Community (EC) and the United States have failed to settle a trade dispute over pasta, an EC Commission spokesman said. Diplomatic sources said the dispute could provoke new trade friction unless it was settled soon. Washington is insisting that the EC comply with what it regards as an unambiguous ruling from the world trade body GATT and cut export subsidies which have allowed Italy to take an increasing share of the U.S. pasta market. The EC provides subsidies of about 16 cents a pound on pasta exports. The spokeswoman said the talks foundered on the question of how much the subsidy should be cut. Reuter 
REAGAN SAID OPEN TO DEAL ON 1988 U.S. TAX RISE

President Reagan is willing to compromise with Democrats in Congress on a plan to raise new federal revenues next year if they back his plan to reform the budget process, White House Budget Chief James Miller said. "If the Democrats want to insist that the president say whatever is agreed to is a tax increase, then they'd better just forget it because he's not going to do that," Miller said in an interview with Reuters. "But there are a lot of revenues other than those the president proposed (in his January budget plan), I think, that we might look seriously at," he added. The Reagan budget, which has been widely criticized by both Democrats and Republicans in Congress, envisages raising 22 billion dlrs in new revenues through the sale of a package of government assets and new fees on certain federal services. President Reagan has repeatedly vowed to veto any tax increase voted by Congress for the 1988 financial year, arguing that cutting domestic spending was a better way to reduce the huge federal deficit. The deficit, which totaled 221 billion dlrs last year, is expected to decline to about 175 billion dlrs this year and would fall to about 140 billion dlrs next year under a budget blueprint recently approved by Congress. The one trillion dlr congressional budget plan contains about 19 billion dlr in additional revenues from new taxes in the government's budgetary year beginning October 1. The plan does not say how the additional revenues are to be raised, leaving it to the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance committees to fill in the details later this year. Miller appeared to be signaling that the president might consider some sort of tax increase despite his frequently stated rejection of the concept. However, Miller declined to say which new revenue sources might be acceptable to the president. "I think it would be counterproductive for me to (set out options) which might suggest that we have one thing or another in mind," the White House budget chief said. He cautioned Congress about the political repercussions of certain moves, such as raising excise taxes on beer, cigarettes or telephone service, or raising corporate or personal income tax rates. "I think that those in Congress who think it will be a simple matter to go along with some increase in excise taxes are underestimating what they would be getting themselves into," he said. "What they don't really realize is that the political opposition they are going to feel to excise taxes is going to be a lot hotter tahn the political opposition to user fees, in certain ways, or asset sales," he continued. "But there are a lot of other things and revenue issues in government that probably ought to be addressed," he said. Before agreeing to a revenue package, the president would insist on reform of the budget process, Miller said. "The president is not going to take a sucker punch. He's not going to sit down and try to negotiate out a budget when we can't be sure that whatever the president agrees to in fact will be delivered," he emphasized. "We'd like to have a budget process that gives us a contract, so that if the president agrees to something, he can depend on its coming through." After returning to the United States from the economic summit in Venice earlier this month, President Reagan revived an earlier unsuccessful campaign for budget reform, calling for a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget and the power -- called a "line-item veto" -- to block individual items in congressional spending bills. At the Venice summit, U.S. trading partners called on Washington to cut its budget deficit to help reduce global trade imbalances. Miller told an Italian journalist here yesterday that U.S. trading partners "have to have faith and trust in the ability of the United tates to deal with its problems." He said a deficit cut of about 40 to 45 billion dlrs a year "is about the optimal rate of reduction in the deficit. I don't think we can end the deficit overnight... I think we've got to have a gradual reduction over a period of several years." Miller is in Beaver Creek attending the sixth annual World Forum, a gathering of current and former government officials and business representatives discussing world economic and political issues. Reuter 
EXXON <XON> EXTENDS MID-GRADE UNLEADED MARKETING

Exxon Co U.S.A. said it is extending marketing of its mid-grade unleaded gasoline, Exxon Plus, into the Houston and Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan areas beginning early next month. Exxon Corp's domestic subsidiary is already marketing the 89-octane unleaded gasoline along much of the East Coast. As it introduces the third unleaded grade, Exxon noted, it no longer offers a leaded gasoline in the market, except in some rural areas where leaded gaosline will be made available to distributors who have a substantial need for the product to serve customers whose equipment was designed for leaded fuel. Reuter 
CHANCES OF DIRECT U.S.-IRAN GULF CLASH SEEN LOW

U.S. moves to increase its warships in and around the Mideast Gulf could trigger more attacks on unprotected merchant ships but run little risk of sparking a direct military clash with Iran, diplomats said. They said the American decision inevitably carries some risk of armed confrontation, but Iran -- despite its blunt rhetoric -- would want to avoid this as much as Washington. "As Iran knows very well, what America is bringing into the Gulf could do serious damage," said one western diplomat. Diplomats see the greatest potential danger in more attacks on "soft targets" such as merchant shipping not protected by American or other western navy vessels patrolling the Gulf. The risk of Iranian attack on U.S. Warships or Kuwaiti oil tankers carrying the U.S. Flag and under naval escort is rated by diplomats as low. However, "There is the threat that the Iranians, seeing these heavily protected U.S.-flag tankers, will go for softer targets," one diplomat said. Tehran Radio quoted Iran's top defence spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani as saying yesterday that Washington was "moving to the brink of an armed encounter with us." The U.S. is increasing its Gulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and sending the refurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside the Strait of Hormuz. The build-up ties in with U.S. plans to start escorting Kuwaiti oil tankers next month, which have been re-registered to fly the American flag to give them naval protection. Shipping serving Kuwait has come under repeated attack by Iran, angered at the emirate's war backing of Iraq. Concern in the region has mounted over the threat posed by Chinese-made Silkworm missiles, which the U.S. says Iran is preparing to deploy near the Strait of Hormuz. The Missouri, with its four-escort flotilla, is likely to make Iran think twice about using the missiles, diplomats said. A military source in the Gulf has said Iran also set up a launching site for the Silkworms on captured Iraqi soil in the Faw peninsula, within range of Kuwait. "But anything that went as far as a direct attack on Kuwaiti territory would be a very serious escalation" likely moving world opinion against Iran, remarked one. Some diplomats believe Iran could also consider carrying out reprisals against the United States outside the Gulf. Rafsanjani, who is also parliamentary leader, predicted last Friday "a river of blood" throughout the world in the event of any U.S. strike against Iran. Western diplomats said Iran, which Washington has accused of being behind state-sponsored terrorism, had no demonstrable capacity to carry out attacks in the U.S. itself. Diplomats saw few potential targets in Lebanon now that most Americans have left in the wake of kidnappings linked to pro-Iranian groups. But Europe and Asia were potential trouble-spots, and Kuwait was one of the most obvious targets. Any backlash was likely to take the form of sabotage or other action to make it difficult to blame Iran, they added. Reuter 
CHRYSLER <C> REPORTED TO BE IN TALKS WITH CHINA

Chrysler Corp is negotiating with the Chinese Government owned First Autoworks about a project in which the Dodge 600 mid-sized car could be added to the Chinese firm's lineup, the trade paper Automotive News said. It said Chrysler is discussing the supply of 2.2 liter four-cylinder engines as well as tooling for the 600, which has been on the U.S. market since 1982. Chrysler spokesmen were not available for comment today. But the trade paper quoted an unnamed spokesman as saying Chrysler is competing with French-based Citroen and an unnamed Japanese maker to supply First Autoworks. Reuter 
AMAX ZINC CO RAISES DYECAST ALLOY PRICES

Amax Zinc Co, a division of Amax Inc, said it is increasing the price of dyecast alloys No. Three and No. Five by three cents a lb, effective immediately. Dyecast alloy No. Three is now 52.5 cents a lb, while alloy No. Five is now 53.5 cents a lb, the company said. Reuter 
FED SETS TWO-DAY SYSTEM REPURCHASES

The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to arrange two-day repurchase agreements for system account, a spokesman for the New York Fed said. Federal funds were trading at 6-3/4 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves, in line with Friday's 6.72 pct average. Reuter 
CHRYSLER SAID IN AUTO SUPPLY TALKS WITH CHINA

Chrysler Corp is negotiating with the Chinese Government owned First Autoworks about a project in which the Dodge 600 mid-sized car could be added to the Chinese firm's lineup, the trade paper Automotive News said. It said Chrysler is discussing the supply of 2.2 liter four-cylinder engines as well as tooling for the 600, which has been on the U.S. market since 1982. Chrysler spokesmen were not available for comment today. But the trade paper quoted an unnamed spokesman as saying Chrysler is competing with French-based Citroen and an unnamed Japanese maker to supply First Autoworks. Reuter 
RAINS HELP U.S. WESTERN CORN BELT, MORE SEEN

Weekend rain over the Western Corn Belt brought further relief to crop areas that had been dry earlier this month, and developing weather patterns will bring welcome moisture to central and eastern belt locations this week, according to Dale Mohler, senior meteorologist for Accu-Weather Inc. "There is going to be more rain for the next two, three days," he said. "We're in a fairly wet pattern with normal to above normal moisture this week." Mohler said rainfall averaged 1/2 inch across southern Minnesota, 3/4 inch over southwest Iowa, one inch in eastern Nebraska and 1-1/2 inches in south-central Nebraska. Illinois fields saw virtually no rain over the weekend but were receiving scattered thundershower activity today, he said. Rain patterns will move across Indiana to Ohio with thudershower activity yielding to more general rains, he said. "Tomorrow, that eastern area will get 1/4 to one inch, a pretty good rain," Mohler said. Rain was heavier than expected over the weekend, sparking an early selloff in soybean futures at the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices were off 14 to 20-1/2 cents with November off 19-1/2 cents at 5.43-1/2 dlrs. Mohler said the cold front now over the eastern belt is expected to move over the central Midwest, then move north later in the week. That could bring new rain patterns across the Corn Belt and assure good crop conditions as early-developed corn moves into the crucial pollination stage in early July, he said. Reuter 
MEXICO GETS 205 MLN DLRS IN WORLD BANK LOANS

The World Bank said it approved two loans to Mexico totalling 205 mln dlrs to provide financial assistance to industrial companies and finance a project dealing with agricultural extension services. Mexico's Nacional Financiera (NF), the recipient of both loans, will receive 185 mln dlrs to be used to provide long-term credit and equity funds to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises, the bank said. It said a 20 mln dlr loan is being made to help finance a project designed to test strategies to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of agricultural extension services. The industrial enterprise project, estimated to cost 350.3 mln dlrs, aims to support companies threatened by high inflation and adversely affected by increased competition brought about by bank-supported trade liberalization measures. The bank said the 73.8 mln dlr extension services project will examine strategies in 20 of Mexico's 192 rural development districts and finance training for personnel and farmers, office construction and the purchasing of equipment. Both loans are for 15 years, including three years of grace, with a variable interest rate, currently 7.92 per cent, which is linked to the bank's cost of borrowing funds. Reuter 
WORLD BANK LOANS TURKEY 325 MLN DLRS

The World Bank said it has loaned Turkey 325 mln dlrs to help support an energy sector reform program. The loan-supported program hopes to reduce the extensive public sector involvement in the country's energy production and supply, the bank said. The loan is for 17 years, including four years of grace, with a variable interest rate, currently 7.92 pct, the bank said. Reuter 
PENTAGON SAYS NO DECISION YET ON EGYPT TANK DEAL

The Reagan Administration is discussing a deal with Cairo under which Egypt would build the U.S. M-1A1 battle tank, a high-speed weapon packed with laser and other technology, Pentagon officials said. But they denied a Washington Post report that the Administration has already approved a production license, which would entail transfer of sensitive technology to Egypt. "We have been talking with Egyptian officials about also producing the tank, but there is a long way to go before any decision is made," one Pentagon official, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters. Reuter 
PRE-PAID LEGAL <PPD> HAS NO REASON FOR TRADING

Pre-Paid Legal Services Inc said its management knows of no developments to account for unusually heavy trading in the company's stock. The company said it was responding to inquiries regarding recent activity of its common on the American Stock Exchange. In early afternoon trading, the stock was down 1-7/8 to 5-1/8 on a turnover of 160,400 shares. Reuter 
MEXICO GETS 205 MLN DLRS IN WORLD BANK LOANS

The World Bank said it approved two loans to Mexico totalling 205 mln dlrs to provide financial assistance to industrial companies and finance a project dealing with agricultural extension services. Mexico's Nacional Financiera (NF), the recipient of both loans, will receive 185 mln dlrs to be used to provide long-term credit and equity funds to small and medium-sized industrial enterprises, the bank said. It said a 20 mln dlr loan is being made to help finance a project designed to test strategies to improve the quality and cost effectiveness of agricultural extension services. Reuter 
U.S.CONGRESSMAN TO SEE REAGAN ON GULF REFLAGGING

U.S. House Speaker Jim Wright said he would question President Reagan tomorrow about his plan to protect Kuwaiti oil tankers with U.S. warships from attacks by Iran in the Gulf. House and Senate Democrats, who control Congress, have been critical of Reagan's plan but have not decided how or if they should try to pass legislation to prohibit it. Wright, a Texas Democrat, told reporters the Administration had gone ahead with plans to reflag the Kuwaiti tankers as U.S. ships without asking Congressional leaders for their advice. Reuter 
U.S. MINERALS <USMX.O> COMMISSIONS NEW GOLD MINE

U.S. Minerals Exploration Co said it and Pegasus Gold Inc <PGUL.O> of Spokane, Wash, officially commissioned a new gold, zinc and lead producing mine. U.S. Minerals said the new Montana Tunnels Mine near Helena, Mont, is expected to reach full production in August 1987. U.S. Minerals said the mine is designed to operate at an average of 12,500 tons or ore per day and is projected to produce 95,000 ounces of gold in 1988, plus significant quantities of silver, lead and zinc. U.S. Minerals said it has a 50 pct net profit royalty interest in the mine after payback of development costs. Reuter 
U.S. TO END NETHERLANDS ANTILLES TAX TREATY

The Treasury Department said it notified the Netherlands that it was terminating the 1948 income tax treaty as it applies to the Netherlands Antilles and Aruba. The termination is effective January 1, 1988, the Treasury said in a two-sentence announcement. The Treasury decided to end the treaty after negotiations between the United States and the Netherlands over the past eight years had failed to reach an accord, a Treasury spokesman said. The decision means the sale by U.S. parent companies of Eurobonds through Netherlands Antilles subsidiaries will no longer be free of the 30 pct U.S. withholding tax, the spokesman said. Terminating the tax treaty with the Netherlands Antilles may cause bond issuers to call in the bonds early. Most have maturities of 10 years or less and were issued before 1984, the spokesman said. He said the Treasury did not expect the action to have an adverse effect on U.S. issuers of the bonds because the general decline in interest rates means they will be able to refinance at lower interest rates. However, the holders of the bonds presumably will be faced with lower yields. Reuter 
UNO RESTAURANT <UNO> STOCK TRADES ON AMEX

The American Stock Exchange said 4,250,000 shares of Uno Restaurant Corp, holding company for a chain of 37 pizza restaurants, began trading under the symbol "UNO." The West Roxbury, Mass.-based company previously traded in the NASDAQ National System under the symbol "UNOS." Reuter 
WORLD BANK APPROVES 100 MLN DLR LOAN FOR BRAZIL

The World Bank said it approved a 100 mln dlr loan to help Brazil finance the rehabilitation of the railway in Sao Paulo State and establish a institutional reform program as a base for future commercial operation. The 285 mln dlr project is designed to financially rehabilitate the railway -- the primarily state-owned Ferrovia Paulista, S.A. -- and improve transportation on the lines leading to the city of Sao Paulo and the port of Santos. The loan is for 14-years, including three and one-half years of grace, and carries a variable interest rate, currently 7.92 pct, linked to the bank's cost of borrowing. Reuter 
WORLD BANK EXTENDS 241 MLN DLRS IN AFRICAN LOANS

The World Bank said it has extended loans totalling 241 mln dlrs to Niger and Zaire to help support economic reforms through structural adjustment programs. The loans have been made through the International Development Association (IDA), the bank's concessionary lending arm, and the African Facility, a three-year IDA-administered fund that supports economic policy reforms in sub-Saharan Africa, the bank said. Zaire's structural adjustment program, supported by a 67 mln dlr IDA loan and a 94 mln dlr African Facility loan, hopes to lay the basis for sustained economic growth, the bank said. Included in the program's goals are strengthening private sector incentives, aiding macroeconomic management, and unspecified changes in transportion and agricultural policies, the bank said. Niger's structural adjustment program, supported by a 60 mln dlr IDA loan and a 20 mln dlr African Facility loan, hopes to aid public spending controls, support pricing reforms, and encourage private sector competition, the bank said. Reuter 
PIEDMONT <PIE> ACCEPTS RESERVATIONS FOR BAHAMAS

Piedmont Aviation Inc said it is accepting reservations for nonstop service to Nassau, Bahamas from Charlotte, N.C. beginning November 15. The new service will connect more than 30 cities on the Piedmont system to Nassau, the company said. Reuter 
OWENS-CORNING <OCF> AGREES WITH TAIWAN GLASS

Owens-Corning Fiberglass Corp said it agreed with Taiwan Glass Industries Corp on the manufacture and distribution of its fiberglass reinforcements products under license. The company said the two firms will construct a new manufacturing plant for these products outside Taipei but it disclosed no terms of the deal. It said the agreement will enhance its ability to serve the growing Asian market for fiberglass reinforcements and yarns. Reuter 
INTEREST RATES HURT U.S. MAY HOUSING SALES

Sales of new single-family homes tumbled 14.9 pct in May from April levels because of higher mortgage interest rates, analysts said. "There should be another month or two of very weak new home sales but with interest rates stabilizing, sale of new homes should become more stable by mid-summer," said economist Lawrence Chimerine of Wharton Econometrics Inc. The drop in May, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 616,000 units, was the largest since January 1982, the Commerce Department said. Interest rates on conventional mortgages bottomed out at about 9.08 pct in March and rose to about 10.7 pct in April, according to Stephen Roach, economist at Morgan Stanley. The effect was to freeze some potential new homebuyers out of the market, he and others said. "The rates moved very suddenly and were certainly unexpected by homebuyers," said Cynthia Latta, an economist with Data Resources. "They were so startled, they wanted to hold back and see what would happen." The drop in sales of new single-family home sales was sharper than expected, some economists said. "We fully expected a decline but the extent was more than we anticipated," said James Christian, chief economist for the U.S. League of Savings Institutions. Christian said there was a sharp rise in May in sales of existing homes, which are generally less expensive than new homes. Latta of Data Resources said strong sales of new condominiums in the Northeast and on the West Coast were reflected in sales of existing but not new homes. Christian of the U.S. League of Savings Institutions said, "Underlying housing demand remains strong. I think the market is going to stabilize and give us a good second half." Others were less optimistic, however. "We clearly won't have a boom (in new home sales) but I don't think this is the start of a collapse in single-family housing," said Chimerine of Wharton. Eugene Sherman, chief economist of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, said, "The lower sales level will be maintained for awhile until there is another change in rates. There won't be much specific improvement in coming months." Reuter 
U.S. REASSERTS PLANS FOR DETERRENT ROLE IN GULF

The United States responded to an apparent escalation of Iranian rhetoric with continued assurances that its expanded military force in the Gulf would play purely a deterrent role. "I can only emphasize that our role there is deterrent, that we're going to be assuring safety for American shipping and that that shipping is not related to the war itself," State Department spokesman Charles Redman told reporters. He was asked about Iranian claims that the United States was moving towards the brink of armed conflict with Iran. Tehran Radio quoted defence spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani telling a visiting Nicaraguan delegation yesterday, "At the moment the United States is moving towards the brink of an armed encounter with us. "We are not concerned about this and believe that the U.S. Presence in the war will make our nation even more serious. We are determined to stand firm and will certainly win." The United States disclosed last week it was beefing up its Gulf fleet from seven to 10 warships and also sending the refurbished battleship Missouri to patrol just outside the strategic Strait of Hormuz, entrance to the Gulf. The buildup ties in with U.S. Plans to escort Kuwaiti oil tankers which have been re-registered to fly the American flag and gain naval protection against Iranian attacks. Asked about the Iranian rhetoric, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, "We won't have any comment or response to the Iranian statements. Our position has been made clear about the status of events in the Gulf. We want an end to the war with no winners and no losers and any activities or statements that tend to prolong the war or increase hostilities are not helpful or welcome." Redman said he could not independently confirm reports that Iran has offered to halt attacks on Gulf shipping. Reuter 
SECURITY <SFGI.O> COMPLETES INITIAL OFFERING

Security Federal Savings and Loan Association said the initial public offering of its holding company Security Financial Group Inc has been completed. The company said the offering by Security Financial consisted of 766,251 issued through the conversion of Security Federal to stock ownership from mutual ownership. It said net proceeds of the offering will be used for general corporate purposes. Trident Securities Inc and Dain Bosworth Inc were underwriters for the offering. Security Financial will begin trading on NASDAQ on or about June 29, the company said. Reuter 
MATTHEWS AND WRIGHT <MW> SAYS BONDS TAX-EXEMPT

Matthews and Wright Group Inc, citing the opinion of bond counsel, said certain bond issues that it underwrote were validly issued and will continue to receive tax-exempt status. The company issues the statement as its stock fell 2-1/8 to 4-5/8 on the American Stock Exchange. Matthews and Wright said that in response to press stories, governmental agencies have made preliminary inquiries seeking more information. Reuter 
HENLEY <HENG.O> HAS VENEZUELAN REFINERY PROJECT

Henley Group Inc's M.W. Kellogg Co subsidiary said it in consortium with <Inelectra> received a contract from Corpoven S.A., a Venezuelan-owned domestic oil company, to revamp and expand its El Palito Refinery. Kellogg said the installed cost of the work to be performed is estimated to be 130 mln dlrs. Inelectra, Kellogg said, is a major Venezuelan engineering firm. Kellog said the project will enable the refinery to produce BTX products -- benzene, toluene, and orthoxylene -- by processing naphtha feed from an expanded reformer-hydrotreater. Kellogg said the refinery's reformer-hydrotreater will be upgraded to 9,500 barrels a day capacity from 7,500. It said the new BTX process units include aromatic extraction, xylene fractionation, xylene isomerization and thermal hydrodealkylation. Kellogg pointed out that Venezuela now imports all of its BTX aromatics. Reuter 
HONK KONG AND SHANGHAI <HKS> NAMES AMERICAS CEO

The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corp said it named John Bond chief executive officer Americas, succeeding Angus Petrie, who is retiring. Bond will have responsibility for the bank's operations in the United States, Canada and Latin America, the company said. Reuter 
LIMITED IMPACT SEEN FROM U.S. TAX ACCORD ACTION

A U.S. decision ending a forty-year tax treaty covering the Netherlands Antilles was unlikely to have a major impact on the Eurobond market, tax experts said. Most U.S. firms stopped using financial subsidiaries incorporated in the Netherlands Antilles to sell to the Eurobond market in July, 1984, the experts said. But the decision affects Eurobonds issued before July 1984 involving principal worth an estimated 30 billion dlrs and will probably mean those bonds will be called before their maturity date, they said. Since most of the bonds are currently trading at a premium, calling them in early will mean a loss in market value for the bondholders, according to a Treasury official who asked not to be identified. The official said the Treasury Department was currently unsure about the impact of the move on the Eurobond market. "We are monitoring the situation and receiving reports from investors and issuers," the official said. Earlier, the Treasury said it notified the Netherlands of the termination of the treaty effective January 1, 1988. For years, U.S. firms seeking to avoid a 30 pct withholding tax used financial subsidiaries incorporated in the Netherlands Antilles to sell Eurobonds, which are bonds issued abroad by an overseas financial subsidiary. But most companies have since taken advantage of a 1984 change in the law known as the exemption for portfolio interest that allows them to sell directly in the Eurobond market and avoid the withholding tax. The 1984 tax change sharply reduced the number of U.S. companies using the Netherlands Antilles to sell Eurobonds, said Steven Hannes of accounting firm Touche Ross and Co. Ending the tax treaty will mean that some foreigners investing in the U.S. through the Netherlands Antilles will lose tax benefits and probably change their portfolios, Hannes said. He said the decision would mainly affect foreign investors who sought tax advantages because they reside in countries which do not have a tax treaty with the United States. These investors typically reside in countries in the Middle East, Central and South America, he said. Some of them may withdraw their U.S. investments or seek tax relief through the Netherlands itself or Switzerland, but the choices are limited, Hannes said. "It is conceivable their investment may stay here. They would bear some of the tax that has not been borne in the past," Hannes said. U.S. domestic bonds are not affected by the change. U.S. companies with Eurobonds issued through the Netherlands Antilles are expected to call them early to avoid the tax liability, a Treasury Department spokesman said. But they could refinance at lower rates because of the general decline in interest rates, so the Department does not expect U.S. firms to be hurt by the decision, the spokesman said. Negotiations between the United States and the Netherlands continued without success since the late 1970's. The differences centered on U.S. concern over residents of third countries avoiding U.S. taxes by using the treaty with the Netherlands Antilles. Reuter 
IMF APPROVES 48 MLN DLR LOAN TO ASSIST ECUADOR

The International Monetary Fund said it approved a 48 mln dlr loan to assist Ecuador in meeting its foreign exchange needs following the earthquakes that struck in March. The loan, which the IMF provides countries under special circumstances, is equal to 25 pct of Ecuador's quota, or economic standing, in the Fund. The IMF said that according to recent estimates, the earthquakes will hurt the country's balance of payments this year because of the loss of oil revenues due to destruction of part of the oil pipeline. REUTER 
U.S./SOVIET GRAIN MEETING UNLIKELY THIS SUMMER

Prospects appear slim for a summer meeting between U.S. and Soviet officials before the two countries enter the final year of their bilateral grains agreement, Agriculture Department officials said. The two sides usually try to meet as each new year of the agreeement approaches although the last meeting was delayed up to last February. However, any delay this year should not endanger the fifth year of the grains agreement that extends through September, 1988, USDA officials said. "It will be difficult to pull together the people for the meeting during July," an aide to USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said. Since the last meeting was only around four months ago, the next talks could still be a "couple more months," he said. There has been grain industry speculation that the USDA will offer Moscow another wheat subsidy during the next marketing year. But USDA officials said even if consultations were held soon a subsidy offer would probably not be made. "I doubt that there would be any subsidy offer this summer or before the next agreement year begins," a USDA source said. Citing limited subsidy funds and uncertainties about next year's crops, he said, "There are too many variables now. It would be uncharacteristic of us to make an offer now." Under the nonbinding pact, Moscow has agreed to purchase a minimum of nine mln tonnes of U.S. grain per year. Soviet and U.S. officials normally meet in the summer before the start of a new agreement year to discuss grain quality, shipping logistics and production outlooks. Reuter 
U.S. COULD APPROVE EGYPTIAN M-1A TANK PRODUCTION

The U.S. Defense Department said it has given preliminary approval for Egypt to produce the M-1A tank, the main battle tank of the United States. The State and Defense Departments said talks were going on between the two countries dealing with Egypt's ability to build the tank and protect its high technology secrets. The U.S. Army signed a contract four weeks ago to pay General Dynamics Corp <GD> 3.5 billion dlrs over the next four years to build 3,299 of the tanks. Pentagon officials, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters Congress probably will not be officially notified of any final plan until after October 1. Congress would then have 30 days to veto Egypt as the first foreign co-producer of the M-1A. U.S. defense officials said Congress could approve the plan because Egypt is the only Arab country which has signed a peace treaty with Israel. But they said the issues of technology transfer and a possible loss of U.S. jobs could raise problems for the plan while Israel would also be expected to lobby against any production agreement. Reuter 
VENEZUELA SEES FLAT OIL PRICE DESPITE U.S. ATTACK

World oil prices would remain stable despite the U.S. Attack against Iranian oil platforms and growing tension in the Gulf, Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said on Monday. He described the situation as "extremely tense," but said Gulf military activity would not significantly affect prices because supply and demand were roughly equal. Demand for OPEC crude in the final quarter of 1987 was 18.5 mln barrels per day (bpd) and the group's members were now pumping above 18 mln bpd, he told a news conference. Hernandez Grisanti said the supply/demand balance was precarious and prices were in danger of falling from their current average of about 18 dlrs per barrel if overproduction continued. Three or four members of the 13-nation Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries were "overproducing in an exaggerated manner" above their assigned quotas, he said. OPEC's overall ceiling is 16.6 mln bpd. REUTER 
Sumita welcomes U.S.-West German joint confirmation of Louvre accord



PHILIPPINES APPLAUDS DEFEAT OF U.S. LABELLING BILL

The Philippine coconut industry has greeted with relief the defeat in the U.S. Senate of a bill requiring some edible oils to be labelled as saturated fats. The bill, which was defeated by the Senate Agriculture Committee on Monday, could have cost about 60 mln dlrs a year in lost exports, the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA) said. "Naturally, we welcomed the defeat but there is a chance the bill will be resurrected and attached as a rider to another Senate bill," a spokesman for the United Coconut Association of the Philippines (UCAP). PCA chairman Jose Romero noted the vote was close, with eight senators voting for it, 10 against and one abstaining. The UCAP spokesman said the American Soybean Association (ASA) had spent about 25 mln dlrs lobbying for the bill. He said the ASA also had obscured the health issue during the debate. "Coconut oil is high in saturated fats, but unlike saturated animal fats, they do not enter the blood and lymph systems leaving fatty deposits connected to heart disease," he said. U.S. Soybean and cottonseed producers had argued that saturated fats cause heart disease and that the labels would discourage consumption by health conscious consumers in favour of domestic unsaturated alternatives. Opponents of the bill said the proposal discriminated against imports and would damage the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. The Philippines earned 488 mln dlrs from coconut products in 1986, up from 477 mln in 1985, UCAP figures show. Exports to the United States for edible and non-edible use account for about half of that total, PCA's Romero said. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG SAYS BAKER MEETING UNDERSCORES ACCORD

West German Finance minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the meeting on Monday with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker underscored the determination of the U.S. And West Germany to continue close cooperation to stabilise foreign exchange rates. Stoltenberg told a news conference "The statement released yesterday (Monday) after the private meeting .... Emphasized our determination to continue the close economic cooperation regarding foreign exchange stabilization and monetary policy." Stoltenberg said that he, Baker and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl had a very constructive discussion and had all reached a positive evaluation of the Louvre accord during their meeting on Monday. Stoltenberg said initial contacts with several European counterparts showed that they shared this view. "We expect the declaration of our unified position to have a positive effect," he said. He noted that the dollar firmed again in late U.S. Trading after the outcome of the Baker meeting was published. REUTER 
IRAN SAYS U.S. RAID CAUSED 500 MLN DLRS DAMAGE

U.S. Attacks on two Iranian oil platforms in the Gulf -- both of which were still blazing -- caused damage estimated at 500 mln dlrs, Tehran Radio quoted Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying. The rigs, one of which was heavily shelled by four American destroyers on Monday, were still burning almost 24 hours after the attack and could cause widespread pollution in the Gulf, the minister told a news conference in Tehran. He said the Reshadat rigs, 120 miles (200 km) east of Bahrain in international waters, were in the final stages of reconstruction after an attack by Iraqi jets last year. REUTER 
AUSTRALIAN MINISTER SEES HOPE FOR FARM REFORM

Australia's Minister for Trade Negotiations is optimistic that progress is possible on reducing the large subsidies which the European Community and United States grant their farmers. Michael Duffy said a European Commission scheme to reform the EC Common Agricultural Policy and U.S. Plans to eliminate farm subsidies over 10 years are steps in the right direction. "I am hopefully optimistic... There is goodwill in agricultural reform being shown by the USA, the EC and the Cairns Group," he told reporters. Duffy said the Cairns Group of 14 agricultural and commodity producers is on the verge of agreeing a common position for forthcoming General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks on farm subsidies. The group, which includes Australia and Malaysia, advocates free farm trade and says U.S., European and Japanese subsidies are stopping it competing in its traditional markets. Duffy is on a two-day visit to Malaysia after talks in North and South America, the EC and Thailand, and leaves for Indonesia on Wednesday. REUTER 
IRANIAN PREMIER REITERATES WARNING OF RETALIATION

Iranian Premier Mir-Hossein Mousavi reiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks on Gulf oil platforms. "The U.S. Attack on Iran's oil platforms jeopardises our national sovereignty ... And we will retaliate properly for this perfidious American aggression," Mousavi told a news conference in Damascus. On Monday U.S. Navy warships blasted the Rostam platform, and Navy personnel stormed a second platform a few miles away. Washington said the operation was aimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assault neutral Gulf shipping. REUTER 
IRAN PLANS TO FILE LAWSUITS OVER U.S. RAID

Iran is preparing lawsuits to file for compensation from the U.S. Over the American raid on its Gulf oil platforms, Tehran radio quoted Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh as saying. The lawsuits would be filed with competent international bodies once the exact damage was calculated, he was quoted telling a news conference in Tehran. He earlier estimated the damage from the U.S. Raid at about 500 mln dlrs. The rigs, one of which was heavily shelled by four American destroyers on Monday, were still burning almost 24 hours after the attack, he said. Aqazadeh said the half-billion-dollar damage estimate was preliminary. Washington has said the attack was in response to a missile strike against the American-flag tanker the Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters on Friday. He denied that there was any military hardware on the rigs "except a 23 mm machinegun for air defence." Reacting to Weinberger's remark that Washington considered the case closed, Aqazadeh said: "Iran will also consider the case closed after its retaliatory measure." Iranian officials have said their response would not be limited to the Gulf and U.S. Interests around the world might come under attack. Aqazadeh said the U.S. Military presence in the Gulf aggravated the regional crisis and made access to the region's oil more difficult, but he did not see the U.S. Attack significantly affecting oil prices. IRNA said he gave no explicit reply when asked if the attack would prompt Iran to block the Hormuz Strait at the entrance to the Gulf. "If Iran cannot use the Hormuz Strait, no other country can either, and this would be to everyone's harm," the radio quoted him as saying. REUTER 
IRANIAN PREMIER REITERATES WARNING OF RETALIATION

Iranian Premier Mir-Hossein Mousavi reiterated his country would retaliate for U.S. Navy attacks on Gulf oil platforms. "The U.S. Attack on Iran's oil platforms jeopardises our national sovereignty ... And we will retaliate properly for this perfidious American aggression," Mousavi told a news conference in Damascus. On Monday U.S. Navy warships blasted the Rostam platform, and Navy personnel stormed a second platform a few miles away. Washington said the operation was aimed at destroying positions used by Iran to track and assault neutral Gulf shipping. REUTER 
U.S. SEPT HOUSING STARTS ROSE 4.4 PCT TO 1.669 MLN, PERMITS FELL 0.6 PCT TO 1.493 MLN



U.S. HOUSING STARTS ROSE 4.4 PCT IN SEPTEMBER

U.S. housing starts rose 4.4 pct in September to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,669,000 units, the Commerce Department said. In August, housing starts were unchanged from July levels at 1,598,000 units, instead of being down 1.5 pct as previously reported. The increase in September housing starts was the largest since a 10.8 pct gain in starts in December 1986, Commerce Department officials said. The rate at which permits were issued for future construction fell 0.6 pct in September to a seasonally adjusted 1,493,000 units from 1,502,000 units in August. Permits had risen 1.0 pct in August from July levels of 1,487,000 units. Before seasonal adjustment, permits rose to 135,500 in September from 128,000 in August. Housing starts before adjustment rose to 150,200 in September from 144,600 in August. The seasonally adjusted rise in starts included a 5.1 pct increase in September single-family unit starts to 1,168,000 from 1,111,000 in August. Single-family starts had fallen 2.8 pct in August from July levels. Multi-family starts rose 2.9 pct in September to a seasonally adjusted 501,000 units after a 7.0 pct increase in August, the department said. Permits for single-family units fell 3.2 pct last month to a seasonally adjusted 990,000 units after a 3.0 pct August rise. Multi-family permits were up 5.0 pct in September to 503,000 units after falling 3.0 pct in August. Housing starts in September were down 1.2 pct from a seasonally adjusted 1,689,000 units in September 1986. Permits were 11.5 pct below the September 1986 level of 1,687,000 units. Reuter 
GOLDMAN MAY LEND A BILLION DLRS TO MUTUAL FUNDS

Goldman Sachs and Co has decided to make a billion dlrs of its own capital available to mutual funds to enable them to sell securities for cash if they need to do so, a senior spokesman for the investment banking firm said. The spokesman said Goldman took the decision on its own initiative on Tuesday morning after a number of mutual funds had reported a cash squeeze because of a flood of redemptions by stock market investors. The New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission were informed of the move, he said. The spokesman described the action as an effort to be helpful. "We're not trying to encourage them to liquidate, but if it's needed, the money's there," he said. The provision of one billion dlrs poses no undue burden on Goldman Sachs's capital, the spokesman said. Reuter 
GREENSPAN SAYS FED READY TO PROVIDE LIQUIDITY

The U.S. Federal Reserve is ready to provide liquidity to support the economy and the financial system, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said in a statement. The brief statement by Greenspan issued by the Fed said, "the Federal Reserve, consistent with its responsibilities as the nation's central bank, affirmed today its readiness to serve as a source of liquidity to support the economic and financial system." Reuter 
CHEMICAL <CHL>, MARINE MIDLAND <MM> CUT PRIME

Chemical Bank and Marine Midland Banks Inc said they are cutting their prime lending rate to 9-1/4 pct from 9-3/4 pct, reversing an increase that they announced just last week. The reduction is effective immediately. No other major U.S. bank had followed the lead of Chemical and Marine Midland, preferring to keep their prime rates at 9-1/4 pct while they waited to see what course money market rates would take. Following Monday's record fall in Wall Street stock prices, money market rates fell sharply on Tuesday as investors ploughed proceeds into short-term instruments and the Federal Reserve said it is prepared to provide liquidity to support the economy and the financial system. Eurodollar deposit rates in London fell by as much as 9/16 percentage point, Treasury bill rates fell by as much as half a point (after falling between 59 and 84 basis points on Monday), and the Fed funds rate dropped to 7-1/4 pct from Monday's average of 7.61 pct. Speculation even surfaced of a discount rate cut to calm the markets, dealers said. Reuter 
GREENSPAN CUTS SHORT SCHEDULED DALLAS TRIP

Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan cut short a scheduled trip to Dallas and is returning to Washington to moniter events, a Federal Reserve spokesman said. Greenspan had been scheduled to speak to the American Bankers Association, which is meeting in Dallas, but canceled the engagement, the spokesman said. He also canceled a speech scheduled for this evening to a New York University group, the spokesman said. The spokesman declined to comment on whether the Fed chairman will be meeting with the President or White House officials on Monday's stock market collapse. The spokesman said the Fed chief was returning to Washington "to monitor events here." Greenspan earlier today issued a statement that it will provide liquidity to support the economy and the financial system. The Fed spokesman said the chairman wanted to reassure the market that the U.S. central bank is standing by in its role as a traditional liquidity provider. Reuter 
U.S. COFFEE IMPORT REPORTING SYSTEM QUESTIONED

A voluntary compliance system for monitoring U.S. coffee imports under quotas is viewed skeptically by many in the coffee industry, said analysts and trade sources. "Many sectors of the trade, including large roasters and importers, are adamant against voluntary compliance because of the past, which was subject to tremendous irregularities as it became a matter of the trade monitoring each other," one analyst said. On Monday, a National Coffee Association newsletter said the Office of U.S. Trade Representative will implement a voluntary compliance system temporarily because legislation to monitor imports is tied up in the Congressional trade bill. Under the arrangement, milar to one in 1980, coffee importers would voluntarily present needed documents to the U.S. government until Congress approves the monitoring authority, but if coffee arrives without valid certification, it will still be allowed entry. While many believe producers will not seek to add to the overburdened stock situation in the U.S., others believe some will ship outside of the quota requirements in lieu of monitoring controls, trade sources said. "Last time, there was a lot of false information submitted to customs which resulted in a lot of indictments and fines," a U.S. Customs spokesman said. "Customs can do a good job when given the tools, but when its hands are tied, it doesn't have the authority to demand Form O (documents tracking merchandise from source to destination)," he said. Many see it as a true test of whether producers and importers will abide by the quota system. "It is a key to seeing whether there are any teeth in the quota agreement," said one major U.S. roaster. "Last time we had a gentleman's agreement, the trade did not act as a gentleman," said another analyst adding, "without the need to submit documents, the ball will be in the producers' hands." Some feel that importers will take advantage of the voluntary compliance due to development of a two-tier market, in which non-member countries buy coffee at a big discount. Many fear that dealers will buy coffee destined for non-member countries at discounts and then bring it into the U.S. falsely labelled. According to customs officials, several green coffee importers confessed in 1985 that they had imported coffee fraudulently after buying it for non-member destinations, forging landing certificates and then relabelling it as navy beans. "If there's that much of a discrepancy between prices for one country and another, producers may be teted to get rid of their stocks of coffee by selling to non-member nations and by circumventing the quota provisions," said Paine Webber analyst Bernie Savaiko. Still, others believe that producers will not be hard pressed to aggravate the overburdened coffee stock situation in the U.S. in the near term. "It would be naive to suggest that any agreement would not have some share of connivance, but I think the voluntary system seemed to suffice and, coupled with the fact that we have so much coffee, I don't think that it poses that much of a threat," one trader said. Reuter 
REAGAN SENDS INT'L RUBBER AGREEMENT TO SENATE

President Reagan sent the five-year International Natural Rubber Agreement to the Senate for approval. Reagan said the accord is designed to stabilize rubber prices without disturbing long-term market trends and to foster expanded natural rubber supplies at reasonable prices. It continues a buffer stock of not more than 550,000 tonnes established by a 197agreement. This will be used to defend a regularly adjusted price range and will be financed equally by importing and exporting members of the agreement. Reuter 
NO PRESSING NEED FOR SOVIET WHEAT SUBSIDY - LYNG

The Soviets have not indicated an urgent need for a U.S. wheat subsidy offer, and it is unlikely that such an offer will be ma during the U.S./Soviet summit expected to be held next month, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng told Reuters. In an exclusive interview with Reuters, Lyng said he did not know if the United States will offer Moscow another wheat subsidy offer this year or when that offer will be made. "Last year it was well into the year before we offered it. There's been nothing that's taken place to indicate to me that there's a pressing need on their part for that sort of deal (a wheat subsidy)." When asked if a subsidy would be offered at a U.S./Soviet summit, Lyng said, "No, I don't think so. I don't think that." The Agriculture Secretary said a U.S. wheat subsidy deal to Moscow would not be the kind of topic appropriate for discussion at a summit. "It would not be the kind of issue that the President or the Chairman would get into specific negotiations or discussions about," Lyng said. "When Mr. Nikonov (communist party secretary for agriculture) was here ... he indicated that trade in wheat was not something that would be discussed with the President of the United States. He said it's not presidential," Lyng said. Lyng said uncertainties about wheat quality in some major producing areas of the world, volatile wheat prices and the still unfinished Soviet grain harvest could delay any final decision on the timing of another wheat subsidy to Moscow. The future of the U.S./Soviet long-term grains agreement will be discussed the first of next year, Lyng said, but the Agriculture Secretary questioned the benefits of the long-standing agreement. "We've had three years in a row in which the Soviets have failed to live up to their end of the agreement ... We would love to continue to keep doing busines with the Soviet Union, but do we need a long-term agreement. Who benefits from that. These are some of the questions we need to discuss." When asked if he felt the United States has benefitted from the agreement, Lyng said, "I don't know. It certainly hasn't been what we had hoped it would be. For three years running they've (Moscow) failed to live up to what we considered was an agreement." Reuter 
LYNG SAYS INDIA FOOD AID PACKAGE NOT READY

The United States and India have not yet agreed on a food aid package to help the drought-stricken Asian country, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said. Lyng told Reuters in an interview that the two countries have been discussing a package but that he did not expect the specifics of the offer to be announced during Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's visit here this week. "We have been talking about the potential needs that India might have for both their commercial market and purchases needs as well as the possibilities of assistance," Lyng said. "At this point, there is no detailed plan or program. The amounts of what commodities are uncertain. But we have indicated to the Indians that we stand ready to assist in whatever way they deem most valuable," he said. There has been speculation in trade circles that USDA would offer India subsidized vegetable oil under the export enhancement program and donate surplus corn under Section 419 of an amended 1949 law. Lyng indicated the two countries have been unable to agree on the mix of concessional and commercial aid, and that Washington would prefer the package include something other than donated food. "The Indians are capable of purchasing a lot, of taking care of themselves. India is a country that has come a long way in its ability to produce food and they have a great pride in that," Lyng said. "We (the United States) obviously, with the surpluses we still have of many commodities..., would like to share in the import business the Indians do, and then we have some, as we always do, compassion for the people of India and would like to cooperate with them," he said. Lyng said he had no plans to meet with Indian officials during Gandhi's visit here, adding, "I just don't know of anything that might be announced specifically." Asked if "the ball was in the Indians' court," he said, "Yes." Gandhi is to leave Washington Tuesday evening. Reuter 
ALGERIA BUYS 75,000 TONNES EEP WHEAT - TRADE

Indications are that USDA accepted Algeria's bid for 75,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat, but rejected bids for the remaining 225,000 tonnes under its export bonus tender, U.S. exporters said. USDA accepted Algeria's bid of 94.00 dlrs per tonne, c and f, for 50,000 tonnes for Nov 10-25 shipment and 25,000 for Nov 20-Dec 10, the sources said. It rejected bids for wheat for later shipment dates, they said. Reuter 
SAAB U.S. UNIT SEES LIMITED IMPACT ON ITS CARS

The plunge in stock market prices should have its biggest impact on the middle range of the car market but have less impact on cheap cars as well as luxury vehicles, the president of <Saab-Scania of America Inc> said. Robert Sinclair, head of the U.S. subsidiary of Saab-Scania AB <SABS.ST> of Sweden, told reporters "We're much better off than the middle of the market -- those buyers will wait to see what happens." Sinclair said the greatest impact would come on buyers of cars in the 14,000 dlr to 18,000 dlr range, which has been targeted for a new product assault by General Motors Corp <GM> and is the segment where Ford Motor Co <F> has had considerable success with its mid-sized cars. Reuter 
MEXICO CLOSES BORDER TO SOME U.S. FRUIT

Mexico has decided to close its border to imports of fresh fruit from San Diego and Orange Counties in California, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Mexico City said in a field report. The report, dated October 14, said the border closing became effective September 25 and also includes the surrounding 70-mile area of the two counties. While the ban applies specifically to Orange County fruits that are hosts of the Mediterranean fruit fly and San Diego County fruits that are hosts of the Oriental fruit fly, the Mexican Government will stop all fresh fruit shipments from the counties until proof of non-infestation is provided, the report said. Reuter 
SRI LANKA POSTPONES EEP WHEAT TENDER - TRADE

Sri Lanka has postponed until November its tender for 75,000 tonnes of wheat under the export bonus program, originally scheduled for today, U.S. exporters said. Reuter 
FED EXPECTED TO ADD RESERVES VIA CUSTOMER RPS

The Federal Reserve is expected to enter the government securities market to add reserves via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. They expected the amount to total around 1.5 billion to two billion dlrs. Economists added that the low rate on federal funds indicates the Fed is unlikely to add funds agressively through overnight system repurchases, unless it feels the need to calm volatile financial markets. Federal funds were trading at 7-1/8 pct, down from yesterday's average of 7.61 pct. Reuter 
NYSE ASKS FOR NO PROGRAMS ON DELIVERY SYSTEM

The New York Stock Exchange said it has asked members and member firms to refrain from using the NYSE order delivery system for purposes of executing index arbitrage related transactions or any other aspect of program trading after today's opening. The request came in a letter issued by the NYSE earlier this morning. The Exchange said the order delivery system allows member firms to directly route orders to the specialist on the trading floor via computer. Reuter 
SENATORS URGE ACTION ON DEFICIT TO CALM FEARS

Leading senators told investors Congress should take swift action on reducing the federal budget deficit to calm nervousness in the stock market, which has been hit by record setting losses. Speaking to an American Stock Exchange-sponsored investors' conference, Senator Bob Packwood said "the best thing" Congress can do about the panic on Wall Street is to continue working on its deficit reduction scheme. "I hope the Congress does not respond to a one-or two-day phenomenon," the Oregon Republican said. Reuter 
ASIAN SMALL MARKETS REEL FROM WALL STREET

Stock markets in Asia's economic "little dragons," seen as hot tips for global investors, reeled today as share prices crashed in the U.S., The region's main trading partner. Panic spread through Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea following the collapse on Wall Street. Officials in Hong Kong, worried that the notoriously volatile market would go wild, suspended trading until next Monday. Markets in Taiwan and South Korea, sheltered from swings on the world's big bourses, were battered this time. Taipei's weighted index fell almost by its full permitted level, shedding 172.9 points to close at 3,492.9. Seoul's composite index lost over 11 points by late morning to 505.28, with investors worried about a possible rise in oil prices after U.S. Attacks on Iranian oil platforms in the Gulf. "When the U.S. Catches cold, Taiwan sneezes," said general manager Blair Pickerell of Jardine Fleming Taiwan Limited. "In this case, Taiwan has got pneumonia." Blue chips in Singapore were hit by selling. The Straits Times Industrial Index lost 190.12 points in late afternoon trading to 1,033.16, breaking Monday's fall of 169.14 points. Reuter 
WHIRLPOOL <WHR> DISCUSSING JOINT VENTURE

Whirlpool Corp said it is having joint venture discussions with <Vitro S.A.> of Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico, on the formation of a Mexican venture for the manufacture and sale of major home appliances. It said Vitro has consolidated sales projected at 1.0 billion dlrs (U.S.) for 1987. Reuter 
NO WHITE HOUSE PANIC ON MARKET, SPOKESMAN SAYS

The White House reacted calmly to the stock market situation, saying there was no crisis atmosphere and no action planned. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said he had no information about special White House working groups or other actions that might indicate a feeling of crisis. "There is not one," he said. He said President Reagan had not scheduled any meeting with Treasury Secretary James Baker, now en route form Europe. At the same time Fitzwater welcomed the action of major banks in rescinding increases in the prime interest rate. Reuter 
IRAN LEADER VOWS REVENGE ON US RAID IN COMING DAYS

Iran's top war spokesman Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani on Tuesday called the U.S. Attacks on two of its Gulf oil platforms an escalation and promised retaliation. "God willing, we will carry out our duty in the coming days and make them sorry," said Rafsanjani in a speech to Parliament later broadcast by Tehran Radio. The Tehran leadership have been quick to threaten vengeance after the U.S. Raids on the rigs, one of which was destroyed. President Ali Khamenei, Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi and now Rafsanjani within 24 hours of the U.S. Action have all vowed retaliation. Rafsanjani, the parliamentary speaker, said, "It is not a threat or an attempt at intimidation when we say we will respond to aggression -- it is a reality and we have proved it in practice." He added that the American attack "squares neither with its superpower image nor its claim of concern with security, nor reason and wisdom." U.S. Warships shelled an Iranian offshore oil platform and American special forces boarded another, destroying equipment. The U.S. Government said the attack was a measured response to an Iranian missile attack on the American-flagged Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters last Friday. REUTER 
LYNG PLEASED EC TO OFFER GATT FARM PROPOSAL

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said he is pleased the European Community plans to offer a global farm reform plan at GATT later this month, although the United States opposes key parts of the proposal. "We're pleased that they have moved in tabling a proposal. It will help us in getting the negotiations underway," Lyng told Reuters in an interview Tuesday. Lyng's comment came after EC ministers in Luxembourg endorsed a farm reform package drafted by the EC Commission. The EC plan will be presented at the next meeting of Uruguay round agriculture negotiators in Geneva on October 26. Lyng said the United States would oppose parts of the plan seeking a market sharing agreement for grains, and proposing curbs on U.S. soybean and cereal substitute exports to Europe. The U.S. in July proposed to GATT the elimination of all farm subsidies affecting trade within ten years, and has pressed the EC to make a counter-offer with the aim of reaching a global farm subsidy agreement by the end of 1988. However, the EC and some U.S. domestic groups have said the Reagan administration plan to end all farm trade subsidies is unrealistic. Asked about such criticism, Lyng said "The alternative to doing that is to say that we preserve them and maintain them. I think that is the unrealistic position." "I would suggest that they (EC) listen to what we are trying to say." Lyng also rejected suggestions the U.S. and EC agree a freeze in export subsidies to get the GATT negotiations started. "All that some countries would like to have would be a wheat agreement where we would stop export subsidies on wheat. That doesn't do a thing for us," Lyng said. The United States wants an end to subsidies in a range of agricultural products from dairy products to vegetable oils, he said. At the GATT negotiators meeting next week Canada is expected to offer a proposal as well as the EC. The United States will be represented at the meeting by former agriculture undersecretary Daniel Amstutz, recently appointed special U.S. negotiator on agriculture. Reuter 
BETHLEHEM STEEL <BS> SETS STEEL PRICE INCREASES

Bethlehem Steel Corp said prices for steel sheet products will be increased up to 30 dlrs a ton effective January 3. The increases will affect certain non-contract or spot transactions and will be achieved through reductions in competitive discounts. The company said transaction prices for contract accounts, which have a duration of six months or more, will also be increased to commensurate levels. Percentage increases were not immediately available. Prices for flat-rolled steel sheet, used in automobiles, appliances and other products, vary widely between about 350 and 800 dlrs a ton. The company said it was taking the actions to restore sheet transaction prices to more equitable levels. In many cases, prices are still lower than those attained in 1984, it said. Bethlehem also said that in response to changing market conditions and potential inflationary pressures, efforts will be made to mininize the number and the duration of firm price contracts. Reuter 
H.B. SHAINE CEASES BROKER-DEALER OPERATIONS

<H.B. Shaine and Co Inc> of Grand Rapids, Mich., ceas its broker-dealer operations, at the close of Oct 19, the New York Stock Exchange said. The firm reported that, under such financial difficulty, it could not continue to do business as a member firm of the NYSE, according to the NYSE. Officials of the company could not be reached for further comment. Reuter 
RUMORS THAT USSR BUYS U.S. CORN - TRADERS

Rumors circulated among the trade this morning that the USSR may have purchased between one and two mln tonnes of U.S. corn, but there was no confirmation. One dealer said he felt some business had been done, but that the amount probably was on the low end of trade estimates. Reuter 
FOOTHILL <FGI> TO TRADE ON NYSE

Foothill Group Inc said its stock began trading Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "FGI." Foothill's shares had been traded on the American Stock Exchange. Foothill is an independent commercial finance company which operates through two subsidiaries -- Foothill Capital Copr and Foothill Thrift and Loan. Reuter 
AMEX ISSUES WARNING ON VENDOR PRICE QUOTES

The American Stock Exchange said market volatility may result in inaccurate price quotations on certain vendor price machines. The Exchange said this volatility has resulted in digits being deleted from certain vendor machines. Reuter 
GLOBAL PETROLEUM <GNR> UPS HEAVY FUEL PRICES

Global Petroleum Corp said it had raised the contract prices for heavy fuel oil from 25 cts to one dlr per barrel, effective today. The company said 0.3 pct fuel oil is up one dlr a barrel to 22.25 dlrs a barrel. They said 0.5 pct fuel oil is up by 50 cts to 21.95 dlrs a barrel. Global raised one pct fuel oil by 35 cts to 20.25 dlrs a barrel. The company raised 2.2 pct fuel by 25 cts to 19.50 dlrs a barrel. Global raised 2.5 pct fuel oil by 45 cts to 19.45 dlrs a barrel. Reuter 
DONALD REGAN SAYS U.S. SHOULD EASE CREDIT SUPPLY

Donald Regan, President Reagan's former chief of staff, said the government should loosen the money supply, try to keep interest rates down and try to reduce the federal budget and trade deficits to avoid a recession. "I think what we have to face now is trying to preserve our economy," the one-time chairman of Merrill Lynch and Co Inc <MER> said in an interview on the ABC television network. "We've got to loosen money, we've got to keep interest rates down. We can't afford to let them go up. That means we're going to have to work on our twin deficits, both the budget deficit and the trade deficit," Regan said. "I certainly wouldn't tighten money at this particular moment," Regan said when asked about the prospects for a recession following Monday's price drop on Wall Street. "I think that if they were to do that, they'd create the same conditions that we did in '29...They choked off the money supply and what happened? We went into a major recession. I think that's the one thing we've got to avoid right now." Regan also called on the government to impose restrictions on program trading. "I think that that's exacerbated, exaggerated this decline, and I think it's something that they must stop," he said. Reuter 
PHILLIPS <P> RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES

Phillips Petroleum Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective Oct 16. The increase brings the company's postings for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. Phillips last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter 
FED SAYS NO NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY

Federal Reserve spokesmen in New York and Washington said there are no plans for a news conference today. The spokesmen were responding to rumors in the financial markets. There was also speculation that because Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson have cancelled trips out of Washington today that the Fed board was holding an extraordinary meeting to discuss a cut in the six pct discount rate. Reuter 
US WARNS IRAN, BEGINS ESCORTING TANKER CONVOY

The United States warned Iran again that it was ready to retaliate for any further hostile military action in the Gulf as U.S. warships began escorting another tanker convoy southward from Kuwait. U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the U.S. sought no further Gulf hostitilies but was ready to deal with any Iranian response to Monday's attack on an Iranian oil rig. Several hours later, the Pentagon announced that U.S. warships had begun escorting two U.S. flag Kuwaiti tankers -- the 80,000 ton product carrier Ocean City and 46,000 ton liquified petroleum tanker Gas King -- southward from Kuwait. The Defense Department said the 12th such convoy of U.S. flagged Kuwaiti tankers through the Gulf began at 0230 EDT under the escort by the U.S. guided missile frigate Ford. It did not say what oth U.S. warships were in the area. "It (the convoy) is now progressing uneventfully in the central Gulf," the Pentagon statement said. Asked on NBC's "Today" program if the United States was prepared for a major war with Iran, Weinberger said, "Well we are prepared I think for whatever eventualities emerge from this situation but we don't look on it as a war." REUTER 
LYNG DEFENDS U.S. EXPORT SUBSIDY PROGRAM

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said the United States will continue its policy of subsidizing farm exports to regain lost markets until there is a global agreement to end such subsidies. In an interview with Reuters, Lyng also acknowledged he was troubled by the prospect that the export enhancement program (EEP) could prove so indispensable to boosting U.S. exports that the U.S. would have difficulty abandoning it. "Yes, I'm troubled with that a little bit," he said. "There's no question about it, the longer you feed the calf on the cow, the longer it is to wean it." In recent months, USDA has offered subsidies on a growing list of commodities to an increasing number of countries. Lyng called U.S. and European Community export subsidies "just plain nonsensical as a long-term policy" and said he saw an end to the expansion of the EEP. "I'm sure there's an end to the expansion, but we are doing this to accomplish our goal which is to regain the markets that we've lost, to keep our products competitive and to let those, particularly the European Community, who, we are convinced, are the worst offenders in terms of the export subsidization, that we are prepared to continue to do this until we can come to some agreement to put an end to it," he said. Reuter 
LYNG OPTIMISTIC U.S. FUTURES MARKETS HEALTHY

U.S. commodity markets should not suffer any long-term ill effects from Monday's financial turmoil, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said. "I think traditionally that commodity markets have moved separately from the equity shares, so I wouldn't think that this would have any long-term effect," Lyng told Reuters in an interview. Most commodity futures prices declined on Monday, some sharply, largely in response to plummeting stock prices. Many futures prices rallied on Tuesday. Reuter 
BAKER SEEN WINNING GERMAN INTEREST RATES BATTLE

The United States appears to have won a transatlantic battle by forcing the Bundesbank to trim interest rates, European economists said. But they added Washington set the stakes high by testing the limits of the Louvre accord while global stock markets were plunging. West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker reaffirmed their commitment to currency stability at a secret meeting yesterday in Frankfurt, according to official statements released late Monday. Only 13 hours after the statements were released, the Bundesbank reduced short-term interest rates by offering banks liquidity at a fixed bid rate of 3.80 pct, down from a 3.85 pct facility rate offered last week. While the two ministers were meeting with Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl, the central bank had also added money market liquidity repeatedly, signalling it did not want a strong rise in the tender allocation rate on Tuesday. "It's round one to the Americans, " said Richard Reid, senior European economist for brokers UBS/Philips and Drew in London. But Reid added, "We shouldn't forget that it has taken one of the biggest stock market crashes in decades to get the West Germans to cut their security repurchase rate by a 0.05 percentage point." Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of earlier tightening of West German monetary policy led to a sharp dollar fall and fuelled speculation that the Louvre accord was no longer valid. Six leading industrial nations agreed under February's Louvre Accord to stabilise currencies and coordinate monetary policies. It has since been reaffirmed by the Group of Seven - the US, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. The Frankfurt meeting on Monday soothed currency markets and the dollar gained over two pfennigs in after hours trading in New York. At the Frankfurt fixing on Tuesday, the dollar was quoted at 1.7918 marks compared with 1.7740 on Monday. Guenther Aschoff, chief economist at Deutsche Genossenschaftbank in Frankfurt said massive declines on world stock markets had been the main reason for the fall in West German short-term interest rates on Tuesday. "The Bundesbank wanted to set a marker after stock market losses... That was the responsible thing to do and if it fits with Baker's wishes, then all the better," he said. No central bank wants to let interest rates rise, and the Bundesbank had been forced to put its rates up following rises in the U.S., Aschoff said. Poehl told a conference in Frankfurt on Tuesday the central bank has no interest in higher capital market rates and he thought the global rate increase was a cause for concern. Giles Keating, economist with Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd in London said "The cautious Bundesbank has beaten a retreat and Baker has won a battle...But he hasn't won the war as the security repurchase rate is still 20 points higher than it was before the IMF meeting last month in Washington." Before the IMF meeting, when the Louvre Accord was reaffirmed, the Bundesbank was offering money market liquidity at 3.60 pct, Keating noted. Economists said the United States now appeared to have agreed to play by the rules of the Louvre Accord and support the dollar in return for the German action on interest rates. Any further sharp decline of the dollar would hinder Washington's efforts to reduce its trade deficit, Stoltenberg told a news conference on Tuesday. He added he would not rule out central banks of leading industrial countries intervening on exchange markets to defend the dollar's value. Deutsche Genossenschaftbank's Aschoff stressed West Germany's heavy dependence on exports and the need for currency stability. In addition, both the U.S. And West German central banks were keen to avoid a dollar slide which would force them to again spend vast sums intervening to support the dollar. REUTER 
NYSE SAYS NO MAJOR FIRMS REPORTING PROBLEMS

No major member firms of the New York Stock Exchange have reported any financial difficulties, NYSE vice president Richard Torrenzano said. He said the only difficulty reported since the market fell 500 points yesterday was the problem encountered by a small firm, H.B. Shaine and Co Inc of Grand Rapids, Mich. which ceased operations. "Our systems are doing extremely well," he told reporters. He said NYSE executives have been conferring with senior staff members at the White House and officials of the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other major Exchanges. He did not identify the officials. In an effort to reduce the volatility in the market today, the NYSE temporarily suspended trading on the New York Futures Exchange. The NYFE reopened at 1315 EDT. The NYSE said the reason for the suspension was that they were following the actions of other exchanges where futures were traded. Traders expressed concern that further volatility caused by futures might threaten the financial health of other Wall Street firms. Reuter 
TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL <TEVIY.O> LISTED ON NASDAQ

Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd said its shares are now quoted on the NASDAQ national market system. The company said its shares previously were quoted on the Nasdaq national market list. Reuter 
BEAR STEARNS BUYS SPECIALIST BOOK ON AMEX

Bear Stearns and Co said it bought a specialist book yesterday on the American Stock Exchange but would not disclose the name or the price. "It deals in stocks and options and it just demonstrates our faith in the auction system on the exchange," said Alvin Einbender, chief executive officer of Bear Stearns. "It's evidence of the fact we have an appetite for that sort of thing and think there's a good future in the marketplace," he said. Reuter 
MCDONNELL DOUGLAS <MD> IN PACT WITH CHINESE FIRM

McDonnell Douglas said it signed a technical assistance agreement with the China Great Wall Industries Co for possible use of its Payload Assist Module on the Chinese Long March series of rockets. The company said the pact will serve as the basis for all future proposals involving the use of the Payload Assist Module in China. "This agreement opens the door for us to proceed with proposals to the Chinese government or with spacecraft customers planning to use the Long March," said Daniel Green, the company's vice president of marketing. Reuter 
STOCK TUMBLE MAY SCARE RETIREES OUT OR MARKET

Many Florida investors are old enough to have seen it all before -- they lived through the Crash of '29 and Monday's stock market debacle was just another day for some. "I don't sell," declared one elderly investor, who said he had more than one mln dlrs in stocks. "Whatever goes down is bound to come back up." The uniqueness of south Florida investors was easy to see in brokerage offices around Miami, where the average age of the crowds watching the Big Board quotations flash by on Tuesday was retirement and beyond. "I don't know of any demographic studies, but we certainly have the highest number of elderly active investors," said Marshall Moore, a vice president of AmeriFirst Securities Corporation in Miami. He worries that Monday's record loss of more than 500 points on the New York Stock Exchange will scare many people, particularly those on fixed incomes, out of the market forever. "They will not be in stocks any longer," he said. "When you start getting heart palpitations and sweaty palms you have to get out and stay out except for maybe utilities and some income-oriented issues." Across the state on the Gulf coast where there are heavy concentrations of retired persons, Robert Lee of Investment Management and Research Incorporated said there were "a lot of serious losses out there." Retirees account for 90 per cent of his firm's business and could take comfort in the fact that its professional managers took their money out of the market last month. "But for those who were buying in on the recent upswing, this is devastating," he said. Miami Beach broker George Fox, most of whose clients are over 60, worries that many are not taking the situation seriously enough. Those who depend on their market earnings should be a lot more concerned, he said. "I am scared because I think this could become very serious." One 93-year-old investor said the market was bound to fall sharply, "I just didn't think it would happen so soon." She remembered '29 and said she remained stingy to this day as a result. "I still find it hard to spend money." Reuter 
CCC PREPARING WHEAT CATALOGUE

The Kansas City Commodity Credit Corp office is preparing a wheat catalogue containing roughly 300 mln bushels, scheduled to be released in the next two to three weeks, a CCC spokesman said. The catalogue should include all CCC stocks stored at terminals and about 50 pct of the stocks stored at country elevators, the spokesman said. Hard red winter wheat should comprise the bulk of the stocks, followed by spring wheat, he said. The release date is tentative in case there are snags in the catalogue's preparation, the spokesman said. Reuter 
U.S. SAFETY NETS SHOULD BLOCK 1929-TYPE CRASH

Cascading global stock prices are evoking grim memories of the great market crash of 1929, but analysts are reminding investors of safeguards in place before they stash their savings under the mattress. But some also say that while banking, securities and social laws written during the great depression should prevent a repeat of that dismal era, more protection still might have to be considered. And analysts caution that while new laws can deal with some problems, lawmakers can't legislate away fear--which helped drive the New York Stock Exchange to its record 508-point Dow Jones index loss on Monday. That 22.6 percent loss nearly doubled the Oct 29, 1929 loss of 11.7 percent. On the day before that year, the market fell nearly 13 per cent. In a series of Reuters interviews with government, congressional and private analysts, most agreed safeguards exist to avoid a repeat of 1929 and its depression aftermath. Charles Schultze, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers under Jimmy Carter, said in an interview that "the safeguards should be adequate to avoid a repeat of 1929 to 1933." "The safeguards are fine," he said, "The safeguards are adequate to prevent a cascading liquidity failure. That's not the overall problem which is the dollar and trade deficits." Schultze, now with the Brookings Institution think-tank, pointed to a weak Federal Reserve during the 1920s when "the Fed acted in the wrong way in 1929--it tightened money." Similarly, President Reagan's budget manager, James Miller, told Reuters the safeguards in place should be adequate. And millionaire oilman and business takeover specialist T. Boone Pickens said the present safeguards should avoid any 1929 situation. "It is a much more sophisticated system, I don't see that a comparison is valid." Marvin Kosters, director of economic policy studies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, thinks the present safeguards will work. "The main thing is the understanding of the Federal Reserve of its responsibility to maintain liquidity in the economy," he said. "There is no reason why this (market fall) needs to spread into the real economy. Maybe it's better it happened at all." Rex Hardesty of the huge labor confederation AFL-CIO said many of the present safeguards are not working, saying "only one-third of the unemployed are now receiving benefits." He also called for an increase in the 3.35 dlr minimum wage which has not been raised since 1981. One of the main things that appears different in 1987 than in 1929 is market psychology, analysts point out. During those anything goes days of flappers and bathtub gin, the stock market was the road to riches that captured the savings of shoeshine boys to bank presidents. It was viewed as a highway to heaven with no turning back. But happy days soon collapsed into a nationwide, hysterical panic with the stock market crash, wiping out paper millions and losing the life savings of many average investors as panic set in. Brokers leaped from Wall Street skyscrapers. American banks closed for a "holiday" in 1933 as depositors clamored to pull out their savings. The great depression followed leading into World War II. Images of those days surfaced with the unprecedented sell off on Monday, but analysts maintained times are different. House Banking committee specialist Jake Lewis said that bank investors should have no fears because their savings are now completely backed by the government. Even though there have been record bank failures --145 last year, 148 this year through today--everyone received their savings--unlike the millions lost when banks collapsed 60 years ago. Banking deposits, then uninsured, now are fully insured by the government up to 100,000 dlrs for each saver. As the depression swept the nation, President Franklin Roosevelt steered into law sweeping banking and securities reforms to deal with many of the problems that led to the crash and hurt people afterwards. Reuter 
WEST VIRGINIA FREE OF TWO MAJOR CATTLE DISEASES

West Virginia has been declared free of tuberculosis and brucellosis from its cattle population, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. It said a state is recognized as tuberculosis-free if no case of the disease is diagnosed for at least five years and if the state complies with the uniform methods and rules of the state-federal cooperative eradication program. To achieve brucellosis-free status, a state's cattle population must remain uninfected for the previous 12 months. There are 33 states, plus the U.S. Virgin Islands, classified as free of bovine tuberculosis and 24 states, plus Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, which have eradicated brucellosis. Only 20 states and the U.S. Virgin islands have eradicated both diseases, it noted. Reuter 
THOMSON MCKINNON NOT IN FINANCIAL TROUBLE

Thomson McKinnon Securities Inc said it is not having any financial difficulties following the 508 point decline in the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. The firm joined a long list of Wall Street securities companies that have been rumored to be in financial straits from losses caused in yesterday's selloff. Earlier today, the NYSE said there were no major membe firms reporting any financial trouble. But, it said that H.B. Shaine and Co Inc of Grand Rapids, Mich. could not continue to do business. Reuter 
US SENATE CUTS OFF STALL TACTICS ON GULF BILL

Confronted by new hostilities involving U.S. forces in the Gulf, the U.S. Senate voted to end Republican stalling tactics and limit debate on a measure that could give Congress a larger role in Gulf policy. The measure, however, does not require President Reagan to comply with the 1973 War Powers Act as does a related Senate bill. The controversial War Powers Act could require a pullout of U.S. forces from the Gulf. The Senate voted 67-28 to stop a filibuster and limit debate to 30 hours on a bipartisan measure that requires Reagan to report to Congress on Gulf policy within 60 days and calls for a resolution to be passed in the House and Senate on the situation in the volatile waterway 30 days later. The resolution could be about any Gulf-related issue, including an expression of support or of disapproval for Reagan's policy of protecting 11 Kuwaiti tankers from Iran in the waterway. The Pentagon said the 12th U.S.-protected convoy began moving through the Gulf early Tuesday. Reuter 
NYSE TO HOLD NEWS CONFERENCE AFTER CLOSE

The vice president of the New York Stock Exchange, Richard Torenzano, said NYSE officials would hold a news conference at 1620 EDT/2020 GMT at the New York Stock Exchange. Torenzano spoke as the market staged another blue chip rally in the final hour of trading. Reuter 
US RULED OUT ATTACK ON IRANIAN SILKWORMS

U.S. military planners ruled out Iran's Silkworm missiles as a target in the retaliatory attack mounted on Monday for fear of being drawn more deeply into the Iran-Iraq war, defense and Middle East experts said. U.S. naval forces destroyed an offshore oil platform and raided another in what the administration called a "measured and appropriate response" to an Iranian Silkworm missile attack last Friday on a U.S.-flagged tanker in Kuwaiti waters. Private analysts generally agreed that going after the rig rather than an onshore economic or military target such as Silkworm launch sites reflected a careful bid by Washington to limit the political, military and diplomatic fallout both at home and in the Gulf. "It simply demonstrated the United States will take military action when they (Iran) take military action," Norman Polmar, a defense analyst and author, said. He said hitting the platforms had spared Iran the embarrassment of casualties on its own soil, possibly avoiding an escalating spiral of attack and counterattack. In addition, it minimized the risk to U.S. forces and the potential embarrassment of any losses, including aircraft that could have been shot down had they taken part in an attack. Anthony Cordesman, author of a new book on the Iran-Iraq war, said the United States apparently chose a limited target to keep alive the possibility that U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar might still persuade Iran to accept a Security Council call for a ceasefire. "We want the U.N. peace initiative to work if there's any chance at all," he said, adding that the action made it clear tougher steps would follow if Iran to attack Gulf shipping. In targeting an oil rig -- albeit one said by the Pentagon to have been turned into a military command post -- Washington also sent a message that it might be willing to attack Iran's economic lifeline. Pentagon officials said the platform had been used as a base for Iranian raids against shipping in the lower Gulf. "We have chosen a military target, but we also have shown Iran that we are willing to interfere with its oil-exporting capabilities," Cordesman said. He predicted the United States would respond to any future major Iranian challenges by hitting Iran's naval base at Bandar Abbas on the Straits of Hormuz, followed by mining the approaches to Iran's oil export terminal on Kharg Island. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Monday the United States did not seek further confrontation with Iran, "but we will be prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iran with stronger countermeasures." Reuter 
USDA REPORTS CORN SOLD TO USSR

Private exporters reported sales of 125,000 tonnes of U.S. corn to the Soviet Union for delivery during the 1987/88 season and under the fifth year of the Long Term Grain Supply Agreement. The department noted the sales are the first reported for delivery during the fifth year of the Agreement, which began October 1, 1987. Sales of wheat and corn to the USSR for delivery during the fourth year of the agreement totaled 8,182,500 tonnes -- 4,080,500 tonnes of wheat and 4,102,300 tonnes of corn. In addition, sales of soybeans totaled 68,200 tonnes, it said. Reuter 
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF SALE POSTPONED

Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas lease sale number 97 in the Beaufort Sea, tentatively schedualed for January 1988 has been postponed, the U.S. Department of Interior said. Alan Powers, chief of the Minerals Maanagement Service for the department, said the delay is to have more time to study the effects of drilling noise on whale migrations. Powers said the state has asked for additional noise data for the sale area off Alaska's North Slope. A new date has not been set, but it will likely be no sooner than next March, Powers said. Some 3,930 blocks encompassing about 21 mln acres are involved in the proposed sale. The area is between three and 160 miles off the northern coast of Alaska in the Artic Ocean between the Canadian border and 162 degrees west longitude. Reuter 
REAGAN SCRUBS RECEPTION TO KEEP EYE ON MARKET

President Reagan cancelled a reception for Republican presidential candidates on Tuesday in an apparent effort to make room in his schedule for a meeting on stock market developments. "The postponement is being made to accomodate the president's schedule today. The president continues to follow developments in the stock market," the White House said. There was speculation that Reagan would meet with Treasury Secretary James Baker and Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan at 4 PM EDT, which was when the reception was to have taken place. Reuter 
BROOKLYN UNION <BU> TO BUY GAS FROM SHELL OIL

Brooklyn Union Gas Co said it has contracted to purchase up to 60 mln cubic feet of natural gas per day from Shell Oil Co, a Royal Dutch/Shell Group <RD> <SC> subsidiary. Brooklyn Union said the long-term contract will cover about 15 pct of its total supplies. A spokesman said Shell and the utility agreed to not disclose the length of the contract or the price of the gas, which he described as competitive with a market sensitive escalation formula. Brooklyn Union said the gas from Shell Oil will replace about 25 pct of the gas previously supplied by Transco Energy Inc's <E> Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp subsidiary. The utility said Transcontinental will transport the gas being purchased from Shell Oil, possibly beginning as soon as November 1. Reuter 
SENATOR URGES ACTION TO STABILIZE STOCK MARKETS

Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa, urged the Administration to take steps to reduce volatility in the financial markets, including suspending program trading and limiting daily trading on stock index futures. Heinz said margin requirements for index futures, now six pct, should be the same as for common stock and equities. He urged creation of a task force to be headed by former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker to coordinate international credit and montary policies among major nations and stabilize interest rates at the lowest possible levels. Reuter 
SPHINX MINING <SPNXF.O> FINDS GOLD

Sphinx Mining Inc said leased mining claims in Alaska could produce revenues between 322 mln dlrs and 966 mln dlrs from gold reserves. The range of the value of the reserves is attributed to the wide range of grade estimates of the ore, the company said. A 1984 feasibility study put the grade at 0.008 ounces per cubic yard, while subsequent exploration work proved that areas of higher-grade gravel of up to 0.027 ounces/yard do exist, Sphinx said. The claims are located 80 miles northwest of Fairbanks. Reuter 
AIRBUS SAID READY TO COOPERATE WITH MCDONNELL <MD>

The European Airbus consortium is ready to cooperate with U.S. Aerospace group McDonnell Douglas Corp on future aircraft programs, pointing the way to a defusion of the transatlantic dispute on subsidies to the aircraft industry, French Transport Ministry Jacques Douffiagues said. He told the southern French daily Depeche du Midi in an interview today that the talks between senior U.S. And European Community officials in London on October 27 on the Airbus question should be more harmonious as a result. Airbus officials said last week that they were continuing talks on possible collaboration with McDonnell Doughlas on aircraft projects, including an eventual stretched version of the Airbus A320 short-haul jet, but that collaboration in the immediate future was unlikely. U.S. Manufacturers and officials have charged that the French, British and West German governments have disrupted the world aviation market by unfairly subsidising Airbus, allowing it to undercut private U.S. Competitors, while the Europeans have responded by saying that U.S. Manufacturers benefit from large government-funded military contracts. Douffiagus said that transatlantic cooperation was already widespread in aircraft construction. Reuter 
AMOCO <AN> RAISES CRUDE PRICES

Amoco Corp said it raised the contract price it will pay for most grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective today. The company said the increase brings its posting for West Texas Intermediate to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. West Texas Sour, at 34 degrees API, was raised to 18.10 dlrs. The Light Louisiana Sweet grade was also increased 50 cts to 19.35 dlrs a barrel. Amoco said Wyoming Southwest Sweet, Colorado Western, and two Utah grades of oil, Black wax and yellow wax, were unchanged. The company last changed its crude oil postings on September 28. Reuter 
OLIN <OLN>, DU PONT <DD> COMPLETE PLANT

Olin Corp said construction was completed on a 150 mln dlrs chlor/alkali plant it owns jointly with EI du Pont de Nemours Co. The company said the plant, which is located in Niagara Falls, New York, will begin operations in December. The plant, which has a 660-ton per day capacity, will be operated by du Pont, the company said. Reuter 
SAUDI ROLE IN GULF PRAISED BY U.S. OFFICIALS

Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz was thanked by the Reagan administration for his country's close, and closed-mouthed, cooperation with Washington in the Gulf, a senior U.S. official said. "The Saudis are being very cooperative. It would be nice if the Saudis would go more public, but it's their real estate," said the official who asked not to be named. He declined to describe what sort of help the Saudis were providing, saying that Saudi officials are reluctant to acknowledge their role in the Gulf where the United States has stationed forces to protect shipping lanes. The prince met Vice President George Bush on Monday after U.S. naval forces attacked offshore Iranian oil platforms in what Washington said was retaliation for an Iranian attack on a ship moored off Kuwait and flying the U.S. flag. Asked at the start of the meeting how he felt about the attack, the prince, who is here on an official visit, replied, "I believe what the United States has done is their responsibility as a superpower." The senior U.S. official said his remark was an endorsement of the U.S. attack. Reuter 
TEXACO <TX> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES

Texaco Inc said it raised the contract price it will pay for most grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective October 16. The company said the increase brings its posting for the U.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The West Texas Sour and Light Louisiana Sweet grades were also raised 50 cts to 18.10 and 19.35 dlrs a barrel, respectively. Texaco last changed its crude oil postings on September 15. Reuter 
EL SALVADOR SEEKING PL-480 SOYMEAL, CORN

El Salvador will tender October 26 for approximately 26,000 tonnes soybean meal, valued at up to 5.6 mln dlrs, and about 24,500 tonnes bulk corn, with a value of 2.0 mln dlrs, under PL-480 financing, an agent for the country said. It said the country is seeking soymeal with 48 pct protein minimum, 12 pct moisture maximum, and 3.5 pct maximum crude fiber for delivery from November 15-30. The U.S. no. 2 or better yellow corn, with 14.5 pct moisture maximum, is for delivery from November 8-25. Offers on the soymeal and corn are due at 1530 hrs EDT (1930 gmt) Oct 26, and will remain valid until 1000 hrs EDT the next day, the agent said. Reuter 
VERITY CALLS FOR NEW ADHERENCE TO VENICE PACT

Commerce Secretary C. William Verity called for stepped up coordination of the major industrialized nations along the lines of the Venice pact last June which committed the nations to coordinate economic policies. Verity, speaking to a trade conference of the Overseas Private Investment Corp., said "We must improve coodination with our major industrialized allies and trading partners along the lines agreed to at the Venice meeting last June. He added "we need better cooperation among advanced developing countries in assuring responsibility to coordinate local economies commensurate with their economic resources. reuter 
ALGERIA TENDERING FOR BALANCE EEP WHEAT - TRADE

Algeria is tendering tonight for 225,000 tonnes of hard red winter wheat at 94.00 dlrs per tonne, c and f, the balance of its original tender under the export bonus program, U.S. exporters said. Algeria bought 75,000 tonnes for November and early December shipmet at that bid, but USDA rejected the bid on wheat for later shipments, the sources said. Reuter 
REAGAN CONVENES MEETING ON MARKET SITUATION

President Reagan was meeting this afternoon with his top economic advisers on developments in the stock market and the White House said he would issue a statement at 1700 EDT. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Reagan met in the White House residence shortly after the market closed with Treasury Secretary James Baker, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, Chairman Beryl Sprinkel of the President's Council of Economic Advisers and chief of staff Howard Baker. Reagan scrubbed a reception for Republican presidential candidates to make room in his schedule for the meeting. Reuter 
NYSE WILL CONTINUE TO CURB PROGRAM TRADING

New York Stock Exchange chairman John Phelan said the NYSE will continue to request that member firms refrain from using its order-delivery systems for program trading until the record trading volume slows down. He said the firms are free to use other systems to do arbitrage between stock-index futures and their underlying stocks. "We are going to continue to get volatility for some time to come," Phelan told a news conference. He said program trading adds liquidity to the market but "at the extreme that adds to the volatility." He said further analysis of the issue is needed. Phelan said a significant number of corporations had begun buying back their own stock in a move that helped blue chips gain back some of Monday's losses. Asked how the record decline on Monday and the unprecedented trading volume affected the financial health of member firms, Phelan said, "As far as we can tell, member firms are in good shape." He said he expects to appear at a Congression hearing in Washington later this week that will examine the question of program trading. Phelan said NYSE officials were in conference with other financial leaders and White House chief of staff Howard Baker for much of the day, adding that "the whole system has been very supportive." He said three or four of the NYSE's specialist firms required and received help with capital. He said these firms were no longer having capital problems but did not discuss specific figures. Asked why some stocks were delayed on opening while others traded, he said the exchange did not want to keep the vast majority of the 1500 listed companies from trading. Reuter 
US DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ON HIGH ALERT OVER GULF

The State Department says many U.S. diplomatic missions overseas are on high alert for possible retaliation from Iran for Monday's attack on two Iranian oil platforms by American forces in the Gulf. At the same time, the Pentagon announced on Tuesday that U.S. forces have begun escorting another Kuwaiti tanker convoy southward through the Gulf from Kuwait. The State Department renewed its warning to Americans not to travel to Iran because of what spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley called, "its virulent anti-American policies and support for terrorism." "The threat to Americans has increased significantly," she said in announcing that the department was reiterating advice it last made in January. The department said about 2,600 American citizens live in Iran, the overwhelming majority dual nationalities. Oakley said no specific warning has been issued to U.S. diplomats and Americans living abroad in the aftermath of the U.S. attack on the oil drilling platforms, but "many of our missions are on a high state of alert." Reuter 
CANADA PANEL ADVISES CUTTING U.S. CORN DUTY

The Canadian Import Tribunal said the countervailing duty on U.S. corn imports should be cut to 30 Canadian cts a bushel from 1.10 dlrs a bushel. In a report to the Canadian finance department, the tribunal said the duty is hurting Canadian farmers and food processors. The duty was imposed last year after the revenue department found U.S. corn production was subsidized. It is now up to the government to decide whether to change the duty. Reuter 
TREASURY'S BAKER UNDER FIRE FOR WALL STREET DROP

As official Washington sought to restore investor confidence after Monday's Wall Street collapse, Treasury Secretary James Baker came under fire from critics who claimed he helped to precipitate the crisis. Baker's weekend blast at the West German Bundesbank for boosting interest rates seemed to signal an unraveling of an international accord to stabilize currency values. Nigel Lawson, British Chancellor of the Exchequer, was among those who said the treasury secretary's statements helped spur a wave of stock sales by making already jittery investors think that a clash between the two major economic powers would damage the world economy. Lawson told a London television interviewer Tuesday, "I think the scale of the (stock) fall was very great. That, I think, was partly due to statements that have been made by senior figures on the other side of the Atlantic." It was a dispute that should never have happened, he added. Although Baker appeared to patch over the rift at a hastily-called meeting with West German officials Monday, he still faced a storm of criticism on his return to the United States on Tuesday. Baker cut short a long-planned trip to Scandinavia to return here to deal with the economic crisis. Said one U.S. analyst of Baker's weekend remarks, "His timing could not have been worse." One government bond salesman in New York said, "He actually thought that yelling at the Germans, and threatening to smack the dollar down would work. That doesn't show much understanding of international monetary gamesmanship." However, some analysts said West Germany's stubborn march toward higher interest rates may have forced Baker's hand. "On the surface Baker may look responsible for this, but if you go back to see what caused it (unsettling of financial markets), it was West German policy," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International in New York. "All Mr. Baker did was to mention the obvious in public, so making him responsible for it was a little like killing the messenger," he said. After Monday's talks, the U.S. and West German governments made it clear that the Louvre currency accord, pieced together in Paris in February, was still in effect. Wall Street feared that collapse of the agreement might be a prelude to hyper-inflation and economic malaise similar to the late 1970s. Analysts believe Monday's Wall Street crash wiped out about 500 billion dlrs in stock values. Treasury sources said that Baker, already unhappy about Bonn's refusal to stimulate its economy in order to keep the global recovery moving, was angered by a Bundesbank interest rate boost that seemed destined to do just the opposite. He felt that the U.S. recovery, inching along in its 59th month, could no longer be the only engine of global economic expansion. A growing U.S. economy has been serving as a huge market for debtor country exports. Moreover, Baker, the consummate politician, was worried that the Republican party might face next year's presidential election with its main showpiece -- a vibrant economy -- badly tarnished. A rise in global interest rates might worsen the debt crisis and completely choke off U.S. economic growth that has already slowed to a tepid 3.2 pct annual rate. "There's no doubt that it can have an adverse effect on the economy, and it's important that the psychology turn around quickly, or else obviously the panic will feed on itself, and eventually there'll be a serious price to pay economically," former deputy Treasury Secretary Richard Darman said in a television interview. In many ways, the official response was mild. Washington was stunned by the sudden Wall Street retreat, with President Reagan speaking for most people by admitting that he was "puzzled." U.S. government sources said the secretary immediately returned to the Treasury to be briefed on market developments and, presumably, their political impact. For all of this, it seems unlikely that Baker's status in Washington will diminish because of the market fall. Asked by reporters if somebody's head should roll because of the Wall Street retreat, Texas Democratic Senator Lloyd Bentsen said with some irony, "Oh, I think it's much too late to be doing that...You have an administration that's taken the attitude that we can put the country on automatic pilot and --- retire to the living room to take a nap. You just can't do that." Reuter 
REAGAN SEES ROOM FOR INTEREST RATE DECLINES

President Reagan said he was pleased with the actions of some banks to reduce their prime lending rates today and said he sees room for a further decline in interest rates. "I believe there is room in the market for a further decline in interest rates," Reagan said in a statement as he left the White House to visit his wife Nancy at Bethesda Naval Hospital. Reagan's statement followed a meeting with his top economic advisers. Reagan said he remains concerned about the market, but that actions taken by the Federal Reserve have helped. "Interest rates are down across the spectrum," Reagan said. "Specifically, I am pleased that the bond market is strong and that foreign exchange markets are stable," Reagan said. Reuter 
CONVOY RUNS GULF GAUNTLET, OTHER SHIPS STAY CLEAR

A new convoy of tankers escorted by American warships headed down the Gulf on Wednesday, towards Iranian oil platforms still oozing smoke after having being blasted by U.S. Navy raiders. Some Gulf sea captains were reported to be steering well clear of Iran's Silkworm missiles, however, and frontline emirate Kuwait redeployed air defences to counter the threat. "I think the predominant feeling ... Is of being scared this conflict will escalate," a top West German Foreign Ministry official, Helmut Schaefer, told reporters in Bahrain after a tour of three Gulf states. b Shipping sources said on Tuesday night at least six sea captains had voiced fears that Iran would avenge Monday's U.S. Raids by unleashing more Silkworm missiles at ships plying the Gulf. Belgium decided two minesweepers en route for the Gulf would stay out for the time being following Monday's U.S. Action. But there was no sign that the prospect of more tit-for-tat assaults had reduced the level of shipping activity in the area. Iran, having vowed to react strongly after Monday's U.S. Action, launched a barrage of threats and ridicule. For its part, Washington warned Iran again on Tuesday that it was ready for any further hostile action. Pentagon officials then announced that a U.S. Guided missile destroyer began escorting two Kuwaiti tankers flying the U.S. flag southwards--the 80,000 tonne product carrier Ocean City and 46,000 tonne petroleum tanker Gas King. Reuter 
REAGAN SAYS HE IS WILLING TO NEGOTIATE ON BUDGET

President Reagan said he had ordered the administration to begin talks with congressional leaders on a budget deficit reduction plan. Reagan said in a statement following a meeting with his top economic advisers that he was prepared to order across the board spending cuts to comply with a Federal balanced budget law, but preferred to negotiate with Congress. He said he would consider anything the congressional leadership proposed, but a spokesman said he remains opposed to raising taxes as a way to reduce the deficit. "I think it is preferable, if possible that the executive and legislative branches reach a budget deficit reduction package. Accordingly, I am directing that discussions be undertaken with the bipartisan leadership of the Congress for that purpose," Reagan said. Asked whether he would consider raising taxes, Reagan said "I am willing to look at whatever proposal they might have." As Reagan boarded the helicopter to visit his wife Nancy at Bethesda Naval Hospital, he was questioned as to whether that meant he was softening on his tax stance. Reagan replied "if you heard that it must have been the helicopter." White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater later told reporters that Reagan was not changing his opposition to tax increases. Fitzwater said the administration would accept automatic cuts under the Gramm Rudman balanced budget law rather than raise taxes. Earlier on Tuesday congressional leaders called for an economic summit with the White House to address the nation's budget and trade deficits that some analysts say were partly to blame for the stock market drop. Reagan said he would be willing to participate personally in any negotiations with Congress. The White House earlier seemed to reject the idea of negotiating with Congress on the budget deficit. Fitzwater said this morning that the White House continued to oppose a budget summit with Congress on the grounds that it would be used by Democrats as a platform to press for a tax increase. But Reagan announced his willingness to negotiate with Congress after meeting for about an hour with White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker, Treasury Secretary James Baker, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan and chief economic adviser Beryl Sprinkel. Reuter 
FORMER U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY BLASTS REAGAN

Former Treasury Secretary William Simon sharply criticised President Reagan for irresponsible fiscal policies that contributed to this week's stock price collapse. "(Reagan) fell for that siren song that you can cut taxes without cutting spending and that we would 'grow our way out of this,' and everything would be wonderful," Simon said, in an apparent reference to the massive U.S. budget deficit. "Every time we hear that nonsense we ought to howl with pain as we were howling yesterday and are howling today," he said in an interview taped this afternoon for the MacNeil Lehrer Newshour which will air at 1930 EDT (2330 GMT). Simon, who held his post under presidents Nixon and Ford, said Reagan's tax cuts are positive for saving and investment. And he blamed Congress for causing the U.S.'s fiscal problems by putting self-interest ahead of national interest. "It's not only the president. It's Congress ... under Republicans and Democrats alike," he said. "They're a bunch of hypocrites who have one credo -- that credo is 'more.'" Reuter 
COMPUTER SYSTEMS STRAINED BY MARKET COLLAPSE

The nation's exchanges and brokerage houses said their computers systems have been strained by the avalanche of trading triggered by the past week's stock market collapse. And while the financial instry's hi-tech resources have been able to handle the crisis, the sudden surge in trading volume will likely force the exchanges and securities firms to revamp their computer systems and communications networks several years earlier than they had planned, industry officials said. "We had already started certain processes to increase the New York Stock Exchange's capacity," said Jim Squyres, a spokesman for the Securities Industry Automation Corp, which runs the central computer network for the New York and American Stock Exchanges. "We will have to seriously consider speeding that up," he said. After three straight days of record volume, however, many exchanges were pushing their systems to untested limits. And while the exchanges said their computers were handling the crush, brokers and traders complained about lost trades and delayed price quotes. The most serious problems arose on Monday, when a record fall of 508 points in the dow and volume of more than 600 mln shares on the New york stock exchange stunned the entire industry. The American Stock Exchange's order-routing system crashed just 10 minutes before trading closed. The Pacific Stock Exchange suspended business a half-hour early so it could catch up with a massive backlog of trades. And the price-quote feed supplied by the NYSE was cut off several times during the day, leaving some traders with quotes that were often 45 minutes behind the actual market. Although the computers whirred away late into the night, the exchanges opened on time Tuesday and problems were fewer, even though NYSE volume swelled to 610 mln shares. Combined volume of the NYSE, American and over-the-counter exchanges topped 900 mln shares. "I think we're equipped for this kind of trading," said Paul Stevens, executive vice president of operations for the American Stock Exchange. "The problem is less the computers, which are handling the volume, than the strain on people," he said. "The computers might turn out to be the heroes of this whole thing," added DuWayne Peterson, executive vice president of technology at Merrill Lynch and Co Inc. In fact, officials said the biggest constraint on trading was caused by some of the oldest machines on exchange floors, the card printers that issue the buy and sell orders. But even as computer executives spoke with awe about their systems' ability to hold up under unprecedented pressure, they started to plan for the future. "We had to do a lot of innovative things to handle this volume," said Squyres of the Securities Industry Automation Corp (SIAC), which is jointly owned by the New York and American Stock exchanges. SIAC had planned to boost the capacity of its system by up to 50 pct by 1990. But that and other improvements will now be made much earlier. Meanwhile, New York Telephone Co said Monday's panic selling did not wreak havoc on its telephone system. "It was a normally heavy business day," said company spokesman Steve Marcus. Reuter 
SENATE BACKS U.S. RETALIATION IN GULF

The U.S. Senate on Tuesday backed President Reagan's retaliatory strike against Iranian targets in the Gulf as it moved to take a greater role in making policy in the volatile region. Senators voted 92-1 for a non-binding measure that endorsed Monday's U.S. attack on two Iranian oil platforms in retaliation for an Iranian attack last Friday on a Kuwaiti ship flying the American flag. The measure said the attack was a firm indication of U.S. resolve that Iran "cannot take military action against the United States with impunity." Earlier, the Senate cut off Republican stalling tactics and set a vote on a measure that could give Congress a larger role in making Gulf policy. The measure, however, does not require Reagan to comply with the 1973 War Powers Act, which could lead to a pullout of U.S. forces from the Gulf. While Democrats and Republicans praised the U.S. retaliatory strike, many voiced new fears about the growing U.S. involvement in the Gulf and some demanded that Reagan comply with the War Powers Act. Reuter 
STOCK MARKET'S FALL MAY BE BAD OMEN FOR REPUBLICANS

Monday's stock market collapse could spell disaster for Republican hopes of retaining the White House in 1988 -- if it proves to be the start of a general economic downturn -- political experts said. "The question is does the stock market (decline) signal an impending recession. If that is the case the Republicans will have a very difficult time winning," independent political analyst William Schneider told Reuters. "If the Democrats nominate anyone halfway credible they would win," he added. Schneider's comments, on the heels of a 500-point decline in the bellwheter Dow Jones stock market average, reflected the old political adage that elections are almost always decided by voters' feelings about their financial well being. "There is no doubt people always vote their pocketbook and we don't expect 1988 to be any different," says Donald Foley, the top spokesman for Missouri Representative Richard Gephardt's Democratic presidential campaign. Foley added that the five-year old stock market rally has shown amazing resilience and "there's no telling where the market will be by the end of the week." President Reagan said he was puzzled by the day's events, but is convinced the economy is fundamentally sound. "I think everyone is puzzled ... because all the business indices are up. There is nothing wrong with the economy," he told reporters. "I don't think anyone should panic because all the economic indicators are solid," he added. But for the time being, the decline on Wall Street knocked the underpinnings from his boasts that the record bull market demonstrates the wisdom of current economic policy. It could also deprive the Republicans of a major argument for keeping the White House in their hands when President Reagan leaves office in January 1989. It gives a hollow ring to the words used by Vice President George Bush just a week ago when he formally entered the White House race. "We have weathered the storm. Our economy has recovered to be the strongest in history," Bush said in reference to the recovery from the 1981-82 recession that pushed unemployment to its highest level since the Great Depression of the 1930s. "We mark next week the longest peacetime economic expansion in our nation's recorded history," Bush bragged. At midday, even as Wall Street was being battered by a record selling panic, Reagan gave a glowing account of the economy's performance at a swearing in ceremony for his new Commerce Secretary, William Verity. Indeed, the Labor Department reported earlier this month that unemployment among American workers had fallen to an eight-year low of 5.9 pct in September, compared to seven pct a year ago and a Post World War Two peak of 10.7 pct in December 1982. But with interest rates climbing steadily and no improvement in the record U.S. trade deficit with the rest of the world, a number of economic experts have expressed doubts about the staying power of the current expansion. Warnings of economic danger around the corner have been a staple of Democratic campaign speeches this year. And Democratic party leaders here for an organizational meeting two weeks ago predicted at that time that the economy would be the determining factor in next year's election. "The 1988 election will be decided, as most peacetime elections are, on economic issues," said Michigan party chairman Richard Weiner. "In Ohio, people are uneasy. They want to know where the economy is going," added Ohio Democratic leader James Ruvulo. American political history is replete with examples of voters throwing out incumbent officeholders when the economy turns sour -- most notably in 1932 when Democrat Franklin Roosevelt won a landslide triumph that ended 12 years of Republican rule and made the Democrats the nation's majority party for more than 40 years. But political experts said that if Monday's stock decline turns out to be a temporary phenomena it will have no effect on the 1988 election. "Times change, conditions change," Schneider said. Quoting legendary baseball manager Casey Stengel, Schneider added, "Never make predictions, especially about the future." Reuter 
US SAYS CANADIAN, ISRAELI PACTS SHOULD SPUR TRADE

Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said on Monday that the U.S. free trade agreements with Canada and Israel should help to pave the way for liberalizing the global trading system. He said the Canadian and Israeli pacts will not set back worldwide reform efforts under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) as some critics feared but help them. The GATT talks began a year ago in Punta del Este, Uruguay to liberalize the global trading system and to include in it trade in agriculture and services such as banking. Yeutter made his remarks at a U.S.-Israeli trade meeting marking the second year of their bilateral accord. The Canadian-U.S. pact, signed by two sides two weeks ago, has yet been approved by the U.S. Congress and Canadian Parliament. The two free trade agreements (FTA) would gradually remove tariffs and other barriers to cross-border trade in goods and many services. Yeutter said in the aftermath of the Canadian and Israeli pacts "other countries have realized that if they want to continue to have access to the world's largest market, they had better get serious about improving the GATT." The pact with Israel, he said, is gradually increasing shipments both ways and the Canadian pact will substantially increase the gross national products in both countries. Yeutter also said the Canadian and Israeli pacts should serve as important precedents for progress in GATT. Yeutter said, "increasing trade is one of the keys to enhanced political and economic stability around the globe." He said, "a stronger GATT will enhance prosperity, not only for advanced industrial nations, but also for other countries that need to increase trade in order to better their standards of living." Yeutter added it was important not to risk the progress made in the Israeli and Canadian trade pacts by resorting to protectionism. He was referring to trade legislation pending in Congress that would force the United States to take retaliatory actions against nations with large trade surpluses with the United States if the countries practiced unfair trade. The legislation was prompted by a growing U.S. trade deficit that hit 156 billion dlrs last year and is still rising. Yeutter said the pressures for Congress to act were hard to resist, but the pending legislation would undermine President Reagan's efforts to liberalize the world trade. Yeutter renewed the threat of a White House veto. He said, "President Reagan will veto any bill that contains serious flaws, and I believe that veto would be sustained." Reuter 
BAKER/STOLTENBERG MEETING SOOTHES MARKETS

News of a meeting between U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker and West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg on Monday soothed currency markets, allowing the dollar to recoup much of the day's losses, dealers said. News of the meeting, which took place in Frankfurt in great secrecy, came after the dollar fell sharply on criticism by Baker of West German monetary policy, which had provoked fears that the Louvre pact on currency stability was in jeopardy. The dollar reacted immediately to the news, rising over two pfennigs in after hours New York trading, dealers there said. The announcement of the meeting, also attended by Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl, was made simultaneously in Bonn and Washington, timed for after the closure of New York markets. Baker, Stoltenberg and Poehl agreed to pursue the policies accepted under the February Louvre accord, a finance ministry spokesman in Bonn said. The dollar rose to 1.7970/90 marks from New York's close of 1.7730/40. It had closed there on Friday at 1.7975/85 marks. The dollar had tumbled nearly three pfennigs as the market reacted to Baker's criticism of rising West German interest rates, and stock markets crashed worldwide. Baker had said that West Germany was apparently breaching the Louvre accord. Under the accord, leading industrial democracies pledged to coordinate economic policies to foster currency stability, with the surplus countries, West Germany and Japan, stimulating their economies and the U.S. promising to cut its budget deficit. West German government sources said rising West German money market rates could not be seen as a breach of the Louvre pact. They were rather a direct reaction to higher interest rates in the United States. U.S. Bond yields have been rising since May on inflationary fears and in early September the Fed raised the discount rate to 6.00 pct from 5.50. German yields have also risen over this period, but less markedly, and since late September the Bundesbank has nudged up short-term rates by changing the terms on its security repurchase pacts, its principal instrument for steering the money market. The allocation rate on the last facility was 3.85 pct, compared with 3.60 pct. This was partly due to West Germany's inability to uncouple itself from U.S. interest rate trends, but also reflected concern among monetary conservatives in the Bundesbank central bank council about excessive monetary growth, which raised fears of domestically produced inflation, bank economists said. This monetary tightening reflected a switch from the pragmatic line pursued by Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl since early this year to stabilise the mark externally, to the more cautious approach of Vice President Helmut Schlesinger. In an apparent gesture to Baker, coinciding with his visit, the Bundesbank repeatedly added money market liquidity this morning. Dealers said this was clearly a move to appease U.S. anger over the most recent West German interest rate rises. "They (the Bundesbank) just don't want to come too much under American fire," said Chris Zwermann, currency adviser at Swiss Bank Corp here. "It seems to me that this is the Bundesbank beating quite a significant retreat from its position," added Giles Keating, economist at Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd in London. The significance that retreat will emerge from the terms of the Bundesbank's next tender for a securities repurchase pact on Tuesday, and its result on Wednesday, money market economists said. Today's injection of liquidity shows that the Bundesbank does not want a further strong rise in the tender allocation rate, which is likely to turn out at between 3.80 and 3.90 pct, little changed from the 3.85 pct on the last facility. The Bundesbank and Finance Ministry had given no indication that the meeting would take place, although the Finance Ministry spokesman said it had been arranged last week. Earlier on Monday the Finance Ministry spokesman, asked to comment on the apparent U.S.-German clash over the Louvre accord, went no further than quoting Stoltenberg as saying he assumed monetary cooperation would continue. The spokesman said he believed Baker had already left West Germany for Sweden on Monday. This week he is also due to visit Denmark and Belgium. Reuter 
EX-ARCO <ARC> CHIEF SEES ENERGY CRISIS BY 1990

Dwindling global crude oil reserves and the lack of any major new discoveries in recent years will send the world into an energy crisis by 1990, the former Atlantic Richfield Co chairman Robert O. Anderson said. "It's going to come sooner than anyone thinks," Anderson told reporters after addressing a Houston business lunch. "I believe we're going to see a change in the world oil markets in two to three years because oil is becoming harder to find." Anderson, who retired from Arco last year to form Hondo Oil and Gas Co, said world oil consumption is approaching 60 mln barrels a day but a current excess capacity cushion of about 4.5 mln barrels a day will rapidly disappear. "If you looked around the world, you could not scrape up one mln barrels a day in shut-in production outside the Middle East," he said. "We're soon going to be right back where we were in 1973 and 1979." Anderson predicted that world oil prices would end 1987 at about 24 dlrs a barrel and continue a gradual climb. "There's no way prices can stay flat because there isn't enough supply," he said. "There have been no major oil discoveries for the past 15 to 20 years." Alaska's Prudhoe Bay oil reserves, the last major world discovery, has already produced about five billion barrels of oil or more than half of its estimated reserves, he said. Reuter 
U.S., AT U.N., CLAIMS SELF-DEFENSE FOR GULF ATTACK

The United States invoked the right of self-defense in destroying an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf, the American delegation told the United Nations. Lieutenant General Vernon Walters sent letters about the incident to Security Council President Maurizio Bucci, the delegate of Italy, and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar. U.N. press secretary Francois Giuliani said the Secretary General had no comment on the attack, which followed his appeal last Friday for restraint in the crisis while he pursued efforts to obtain a ceasefire between Iran and Iraq. In his explanation, Walters said the United States took defensive action in response to an Iranian attack against American ships in the Gulf. He cited an Iranian Silkworm missile strike last Friday in Kuwait waters against the United States-flag ship Sea Isle City. Walters said that military forces on the destroyed Iranian platform had engaged in a variety of actions against United States-flag and other nonbelligerent vessels and planes. "In accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations (Charter), I wish, on behalf of my government, to report that United States forces have exercised the inherent right of self-defense under internation law by taking defensive action in response to attacks by . . . Iran against United States vessels in the Gulf," Walters said. Members of the Security Council met behind closed doors on Monday to discuss developments in the Gulf war, but no statement was issued afterwards. Reuter 
FRANCE SAYS U.S. HAD RIGHT TO STRIKE

France voiced its comprehension for a U.S. Attack on an Iranian target while calling for a swift halt to the Gulf War to avoid further escalation. "The French authorities reaffirm their attachment to the freedom and security of navigation and to the right of all states to take action under international law and the United Nations charter to halt attacks such as that of October 16," the Foreign Ministry spokesman said in a statement. The United States said its forces destroyed an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf and struck at a second on Monday in retaliation for a recent Iranian missile attack on a U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti ship. Washington said the platforms were used to monitor shipping and to launch small-boat attacks on shipping. The French statement described the target as "an Iranian military platform." But the French statement added that "everything must be done now to avoid that these military developments lead to a new escalation of the conflict." Reuter 
U.S. LAWMAKERS SUPPORT GULF ACTION

American lawmakers rallied behind President Reagan for the U.S. strike against Iranian targets in the Gulf but the attack fueled a sharp new White House-Congress debate over limits on his powers to make war. The Pentagon announced on Monday that U.S. warships destroyed a non-producing oil platform used for monitoring Gulf ship traffic and military operations, and also raided a second Iranian oil rig in retaliation for an earlier Iranian attack on a Kuwaiti ship flying the American flag. Many Democrats, who control Congress, and Republicans expressed support for the attack and praised it as an appropriate "measured response." But Democrats and liberal Republicans voiced new fears that the growing confrontation between Tehran and the United States could erupt into a major war, and demanded that Reagan comply with the 1973 War Powers Act, which could lead to a pullout of American forces from the waterway. "Those who contend the strike was necessary must realize their words are easily construed as a tacit endorsement of war with Iran," said Sen Mark Hatfield of Oregon, a Republican. Reuter 
SAUDI CROWN PRINCE MEETS WITH US VICE PRES BUSH

Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz met for an hour with Vice President George Bush on Monday after U.S. naval forces destroyed one Iranian oil platform in the Gulf and raided another. Asked at the start of the meeting how he felt about the attack, the Crown Prince, who is here on an official visit, replied, "I believe what the United States has done is their responsibility as a superpower." His remark appeared to be an implicit endorsement of the U.S. action, which the Pentagon said came in retaliation for last Friday's Iranian missile attack on a U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tanker. Administration officials said Bush had assured the Crown Prince the United States would "stay the course" in the Gulf. They said Prince Abdullah, who is deputy prime minister of Saudi Arabia and commander of the kingdom's national guard, was "very supportive" of the U.S. role in the strategic waterway. Before meeting with Bush, the Crown Prince paid a brief courtesy call on President Reagan. During his stay in Washington, he was also scheduled to meet with Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and leaders of the House and Senate foreign policy committees. Reuter 
ITALY WORRIED AT RISING TENSION AFTER GULF ATTACK

Italian Prime Minister Giovanni Goria told the cabinet on Monday he was worried about the increased tension in the Gulf, but said America's retaliation against Iran had been limited. A statement issued after a cabinet meeting said Goria had been informed by the United States that it would take action against an Iranian target in the Gulf, but had not known beforehand that the action would involve an attack on an oil platform. "The prime minister expressed his concern over the possible consequences of increased tension in the Gulf, at the same time recognizing the limited character of the American military reaction to the attacks it has suffered in the past few days," the statement said. Goria said Italy's own ships were far from the platform at the time of the attack and the fleet had been advised to follow events with caution. Italy has sent eight ships, including three frigates and three minesweepers, to the Gulf to protect Italian merchant shipping there. Reuter 
BONN CONFIDENT OF MAINTAINING CURRENCY STABILITY

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in Frankfurt on Monday, a Bonn Finance Ministry spokesman said. After the meeting the spokesman quoted Stoltenberg as saying he was confident that foreign currencies could be stabilised at around current levels. The meeting came after Baker criticised West Germany for increasing short-term money market interest rates. He had said the rise was not in line with the spirit of the Louvre accord aimed at stabilizing the U.S. dollar last February. The meeting had been arranged last week, the spokesman said. Baker, Stoltenberg and Poehl had agreed to pursue the policies agreed under the Louvre pact with reference to currency stability and monetary policy. Earlier on Monday the Bundesbnak injected liquidity into the West German money market in a move which money market dealers interpreted as an attempt by the West German monetary authority to curb interest rate rises. The spokesman described Monday's talks, which he called private, as very positive. Reuter 
US TROPICAL OIL LABELING PLAN SUFFERS DEFEAT

A proposal to require imported tropical oils to be labeled as saturated fats suffered a narrow and possibly debilitating defeat in the U.S. Senate. The Senate Agriculture Committee rejected the proposal by a 10-8 vote, virtually snuffing out U.S. soybean producers' hopes the plan would be adopted this year. A similar proposal has made no headway in the House. Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) offered the proposal as an amendment to a farm spending reduction package. "I don't see this as a trade issue. I see it as giving American consumers the information they need," he said. Proponents of the measure, including the American Soybean Association, have claimed palm, palm kernel and coconut oils are high in saturated fat and can contribute to heart disease. The U.S. soybean industry believes labels indicating tropical oils are high in saturated fats would discourage consumption of the oils, imported primarily from Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. But Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) read a letter from U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter, who said the proposal "blatantly discriminates" against imports, would be impossible to defend under international trade law and would harm relations with the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. Yeutter's letter also said Americans derive most of their saturated fats from meat and dairy products and relatively little from tropical oils. The committee voted largely along party lines, with three Democrats joining seven Republicans to oppose the measure. Reuter 
UNOCAL <UCL> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES

Unocal Corp said it raised its posted prices for most U.S. grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective October 16. The move brings the price the company will pay for the U.S. benchmark grade, West Texas Intermediate, and West Texas Sour to 19 dlrs a barrel. The price was last changed September 9, Unocal said. Reuter 
NYSE CHAIRMAN SAYS MARKET DECLINE NOT A CRASH

New York Stock Exchange chairman John Phelan said the stock market underwent a significant correction today but he did not characterize it as a crash. He also said the NYSE will open tomorrow on time. "The market underwent a significant fall and a significant devaluation of assets of which we are all concerned," he said. Speaking to reporters, Phelan listed several reasons why the market fell today. He said stocks have been going up for five years without a correction. He also blamed inflation fears, rising interest rates, a lower dollar and problems with Iran. "All came together in a very nervous market" he said. "It's the nearest thing to a meltdown that I ever want to see," Phelan said. Phelan said what he meant by meltdown was a snowballing effect where selling fed on itself. Phelan said the NYSE is going through its standard procedures before trading begins tomorrow. Those procedures include checking with member firms on their liquidity, margin positions, and backlog. "We know of no firm that has a significant problem, but that could change at any moment," he said. Asked for advice for the average investor, Phelan said, "We do not know where the market will end up." The Dow Jones Industrial average declined a record 508 points to 1738.74. Volume was a record setting 605 mln shares, almost double the previous record. Phelan, in response to a question on declines in foreign markets, said he believes there is no loss of confidence in the global economy. He added that the underlying fundamentals of the U.S. economy are still strong, and that corporate earnings also continue to be firm. Phelan explained today's record descent as being the result of a confluence of factors, including the globalization of markets and the proliferation of new securities instruments. Those two factors alone have made the market more volatile, he said. Phelan also said a major factor in the decline was the fact that there has been no major correction in the five-year bull market. He also pointed to rising tension in the Mideast Gulf. The New York Stock Exchange was in constant contact with the Securities and Exchange Commission about a possible halt in all trading on the exchange, Phelan said. "The consensus was that it is better to let the market try to work itself out," he said. In addition, Phelan said that with the global nature of trading there is no guarantee that halting trading on the New York Stock Exchange would have served any purpose. Phelan said he was in contact with the Treasury department, White House and the Federal Reserve, but that the contact was made as a matter of routine. Reuter 
U.S. TREASURY'S BAKER MEETS WEST GERMAN MINISTER

U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl today in West Germany and agreed to support the Louvre pact, the Treasury Department said. The Treasury described the meeting as "a very positive, private meeting in Frankfurt, West Germany which had been agreed upon last week. "The parties agreed to continue economic cooperation under the Louvre agreement and its flexible application including cooperation on exchange rate stability and monetary policies," the Treasury said. The Treasury said Baker and Stoltenberg "are consulting with their G-7 colleagues and are confident that this will enable them to foster exchange rate stability around current levels." The Louvre pact is an agreement between the Group of Seven leading industrial countries including the United States and West Germany to promote currency stability. Baker was scheduled to visit Scandinavia and Belgium this week and the department earlier refused to release details of his travel itinerary, citing security considerations. Reuter 
REAGAN SAID CONVINCED ECONOMY STILL SOUND

President Reagan is concerned about the record drop in stock prices but remains convinced on the basis of administration talks with financial experts that the economy remains sound, the White House said. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said in a written statement that Reagan "watched today with concern" the decline on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrial average plunged more than 500 points. The statement said Reagan had directed administration officials to consult with leading financial experts, including the chairmen of the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchance Commission, and the New York Stock Exchange. "These consultations confirm our view that the underlying economy remains sound," Fitzwater said. The White House statement, issued about 45 minutes after the stock market closed, appeared designed to calm investors worried about U.S. economic propects. "We are in the longest peacetime expansion in history. Employment is at the highest level ever. Manufacturing output is up. The trade deficit, when adjusted for changes in currencies, is steadily improving. And, as the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board has recently stated, there is no evidence of a resurgence of inflation in the United States," Fitzwater said. He said Reagan was keeping close watch on the markets in the United States and in countries, where waves of selling developed on Monday. "We will continue to closely monitor these developments," Fitzwater said. However, his three-paragraph statement gave no hint of what, if any, action Reagan might take if the stock market plunge continues. The percentage drop of 22.6 percent on Monday was the second largest ever, exceeded only by the 24.4 percent drop on Dec. 12, 1914. It easily eclipsed the fall of 12.8 percent on Oct. 28, 1929 which helped spark the Great Depression. Reagan and his top advisers discussed the market crisis, which came on the same day American naval forces retaliated for last Friday's alleged Iranian missile attack on a U.S. flagged Kuwaiti tanker in the Gulf, at a White House issues luncheon. Presidential aides told reporters after the luncheon an official statement was likely to be issued when the markets closed. Reuter 
ARCO <ARC> RAISES CRUDE OIL POSTINGS 50 CTS

Atlantic Richfield's Arco Oil and Gas Co said it increased contract prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective today. Arco said the 50 cts increase brings its posted price for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark grade, to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. The price of West Texas Sour was increased to 18.10 dlrs. Light Louisiana Sweet was raised to 19.35 dlrs. The price was last changed on September 30. Reuter 
U.S. MILITARY LEADER PREDICTS IRANIAN RESPONSE

William Crowe, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, predicted Iran will retaliate for the U.S. strike against its oil platform though he said Iranian options were limited. "They will be determined. They will not be easily deterred, and let me stress for you that our commitment there is not going to be risk free or casualty free." He said the most likely Iranian response would involve terrorism or the laying of mines. "They obviously will look for ways that are probably more in line with the 'silent hand' than what they have tried thus far," Crowe told an American Stock Exchange conference. He declined comment on a reporter's query whether he favored a stronger move against Iran than that ordered by the president. "We carried out the operation that was decided upon and we carried it out with enthusiasm and I think it was professionally and well done," Crowe said. Reuter 
EEP DAIRY CATTLE INITIATIVE TO EGYPT WITHDRAWN

The U.S. Agriculture Department has withdrawn the offers of dairy cattle to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program. The department said the initiative for 10,000 head of dairy cattle was announced on September 12, 1986, and sales of 3,501 head have been approved since that date. The department said it is its objective to complete sales within one year after announcing an initiative, and that initiatives are continued for over a year only if sufficient sales activity occurs. It said it is giving exporters three days notice of the withdrawn in keeping with regulations under the program. Reuter 
PACIFIC STOCK EXCHANGE TO CLOSE EARLY

The Pacific Stock Exchange said it plans to close at 1300 pdt rather than at its normal closing time of 1330 pdt because of the extraordinary volume of transactions. The exchange also said it will use a closing rotation in all equity options series in order to determine a single closing price for the day and to match all outstnding market orders. Daily trading volume normally totals between 8-1/2 and nine mln shares, an exchange spokesman said, adding, volume totaled about eight mln shares one and one-half hours ago. "There's a lot of anxiety of course, but no panic," stock exchange spokesman Don Alexander said of the trading activity. "I think everybody's holding up under the situation very well." The stock market suffered its worst setback in history on Monday. After the close of trading the New York Stock Exchange said preliminary figures indicated a record 507.99 point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial average. Reuter 
U.S. FORCES DESTROYED OIL RIG, RAIDED ANOTHER

U.S. warships destroyed an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf on Monday and the Navy also raided a second oil rig in retaliation for Friday's Iranian missile attack on a U.S. flag tanker, the Pentagon said. President Reagan and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger warned Iran of even stronger countermeasures if the military escalation between the two countries continued in the volatile waterway. Reagan said he ordered the strike on the first platform by four U.S. destroyers, which fired about 1,000 five-inch shells at the Rostam oil rig 120 miles east of Bahrain in the central Gulf. A short time later, Navy personnel boarded a second Iranian oil platform about five miles to the north and destroyed radar and communications equipment before leaving the structure, the Pentagon said. Defense Department spokesman Fred Hoffman told reporters that the second platform had been abandoned by Iranian personnel during the shelling and destruction of the first rig. The United States said both platforms were being used to keep track of Gulf merchant shipping and to launch speedboat attacks on such shipping by Iranian Revolutionary guards. Reuter 
BRITAIN BACKS U.S. STRIKE ON IRAN OIL PLATFORM

British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe backed the United States' attack on an Iranian oil platform on Monday and said it should not worsen the Gulf crisis. "The United States is fully entitled to take military action in exercise of rights of self-defense, in the face of the imminent threat of further attacks," Howe said in a statement issued in London. The United States said its forces destroyed the platform on Monday in retaliation for an Iranian missile attack on a U.S.- flagged Kuwaiti ship last Friday. Referring to that attack, Howe added, "I trust the Iranians will fully understand that continued attacks of this kind will only enhance justification for firm action in self-defense." At a press conferenced in Luxembourg during a meeting of European Community (EC) ministers, Howe was asked about statements from a senior Iranian official who said America was now involved in a full-scale war. "It would be profoundly undesirable and quite unjustified for Iran to react in that way," he said. Reuter 
HUGE OIL PLATFORMS DOT GULF LIKE BEACONS

Huge oil platforms dot the Gulf like beacons -- usually lit up like Christmas trees at night. One of them, sitting astride the Rostam offshore oilfield, was all but blown out of the water by U.S. Warships on Monday. The Iranian platform, an unsightly mass of steel and concrete, was a three-tier structure rising 200 feet (60 metres) above the warm waters of the Gulf until four U.S. Destroyers pumped some 1,000 shells into it. The U.S. Defense Department said just 10 pct of one section of the structure remained. U.S. helicopters destroyed three Iranian gunboats after an American helicopter came under fire earlier this month and U.S. forces attacked, seized, and sank an Iranian ship they said had been caught laying mines. But Iran was not deterred, according to U.S. defense officials, who said Iranian forces used Chinese-made Silkworm missiles to hit a U.S.-owned Liberian-flagged ship on Thursday and the Sea Isle City on Friday. Both ships were hit in the territorial waters of Kuwait, a key backer of Iraq in its war with Iran. Henry Schuler, a former U.S. diplomat in the Middle East now with CSIS said Washington had agreed to escort Kuwaiti tankers in order to deter Iranian attacks on shipping. But he said the deterrence policy had failed and the level of violence and threats to shipping had increased as a result of U.S. intervention and Iran's response. The attack on the oil platform was the latest example of a U.S. "tit-for-tat" policy that gave Iran the initiative, said Harlan Ullman, an ex-career naval officer now with CSIS. He said with this appraoch America would suffer "the death of one thousand cuts." But for the United States to grab the initiative militarily, it must take warlike steps such as mining Iran's harbors or blockading the mouth of the Gulf through which its shipping must pass, Schuler said. He was among those advocating mining as a means of bringing Iran to the neogtiating table. If vital supplies were cut off, Tehran could not continue the war with Iraq. Ullman said Washington should join Moscow in a diplomatic initiative to end the war and the superpowers should impose an arms embargo against Tehran if it refused to negotiate. He said the United States should also threaten to mine and blockade Iran if it continued fighting and must press Iraq to acknowledge responsibility for starting the war as part of a settlement. Iranian and Western diplomats say Iraq started the war by invading Iran's territory in 1980. Iraq blames Iran for the outbreak of hostilities, which have entailed World War I-style infantry attacks resulting in horrific casualties. Each side has attacked the others' shipping. Reuter 
DIPLOMATS CALL U.S. ATTACK ON OIL RIG RESTRAINED

A U.S. attack on an Iranian oil platform in the Gulf on Monday appeared to be a tit-for-tat raid carefully orchestrated not to be too provocative or upset Arab allies, Western diplomats in the region said. U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Monday that U.S. Warships destroyed the oil platform in the southern Gulf in response to a missile strike on the American-registered Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City in Kuwaiti waters on Friday. "We consider the matter closed," he said, a signal the U.S. administration did not want the Gulf crisis to escalate. Iran had warned the United States earlier in the day against exacerbating the Gulf crisis, saying military action would endanger American interests. Following the raid, a okesman for Tehran's War Information Headquarters vowed to avenge the attack with a "crushing blow." "The United States has entered a swamp from which it can in no way get out safely," Tehran Radio quoted him as saying. Diplomats noted, however, Iran was also seeking to avoid ostracism by Arab states due to meet at a summit in Amman on November 8 and discuss the Iran-Iraq war. Iranian Prime Minister Mir-Hossein Mousavi is currently in Damascus, and diplomats said he would seek Syrian help in preventing a total Arab breach with Tehran. Further escalation of the war threatening the Gulf Arab states could work against Tehran at the Amman gathering, they said. "The ball is in Iran's court now. It's up to Tehran to respond one way or the other," a diplomat said. President Ronald Reagan warned Iran of stronger American countermeasures if the military escalation continued. Western diplomats and military sources in the area said shelling the platform appeared to be the least provocative act the United States could have taken once it had decided to retaliate for the tanker attack, blamed by both the Americans and Kuwaitis on Iran. "It's interesting that they chose something in international waters because it doesn't implicate any other nation," one diplomat said. "This was better for U.S. Relations with the Gulf Arab states, particularly Kuwait." Commented another diplomat: "Kuwait must be happy that the U.S. Has done something, but relieved that Faw was not attacked on its doorstep." One source said of the attack on the oil platform: "They managed to warn off the crew and hit something that was the least nuisance to everybody." A diplomat commented: "They were very clever in the place they chose. It gets attention, but it hasn't devastated anything because it wasn't working in the first place." A senior Arab banker in the area said after the news broke: "This was a good, measured response without risking a flare-up ... It is a face-saving response (for the Americans)." Reuter 
LATEST ATTACK SEEN POINTING UP DILEMMAS FOR US

Military experts say the United States faces a dilemma in the Gulf following U.S. destruction of an Iranian oil platform in retaliation for an attack on a U.S.-flagged tanker. The experts told Reuters Tehran holds the initiative and is likely to control the tempo and direction of the conflict as long as America simply reacts to Iranian attacks by launching limited retaliatory strikes. But if Washington seizes the initiative with bolder steps -- such as mining Iran's harbors, blockading its shipping, or destroying key bases -- it could find itself in a major war. "Iran is in the driver's seat in an absolute sense as the cycle of attack and retaliation continues," said Fred Axelgard, a Gulf War expert with the private Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). "It's like a Greek tragedy," said retired Adm. Eugene Carroll of Washington's private Center for Defense Information (CDI) think tank. Some Middle East experts say the only way out is for Washington to join forces with Moscow in pressing for an end to the war between Iran and Iraq. They say it is not feasible for America to withdraw its 30-ship force from the Gulf area, where the Navy began escorting U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers in July. Withdrawal would give the appearance of being chased away by Iran, which President Reagan could never accept. U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger told a Pentagon news conference the destroyers Kidd, Young, Leftwich and Hoel fired about 1,000 rounds of five-inch shells at Iran's Rostam oil rig 120 miles east of Bahrain beginning at about 1400 Gulf time (0700 EDT) on Monday. Weinberger said the platform had been used as a military base by Iran and that the attack responded to an Iranian Silkworm missile strike on the U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tanker Sea Isle City on Friday. Iranians manning the platform were warned in advance and allowed to escape. "We do not seek further confrontation with Iran, but we will be prepared to meet any escalation of military action by Iran with stronger countermeasures," Weinberger said. "We consider this matter closed," he said. Analysts ranging from the liberal CDI to conservatives agreed the U.S. reaction was measured, reasonable and did not escalate the conflict unduly. But they said the question was whether Iran would consider the matter closed. It had not taken this view after earlier clashes. Reuter 
REAGAN CALLS FOR VIGILANCE ON CERTAIN EXPORTS

President Reagan said the Commerce Department should be vigilant in preventing the flow of strategic technology from reaching the the Soviet Union and other communist countries. He was speaking at the swearing in of C. William Verity as Secretary of the Commerce Department. Verity said the U.S. should make certain that militarily sensitive high technology does not wind up in communist nations. But he also said the U.S. must reduce the list of products of a nontechnological nature, thereby allowing manufacturers to increase exports and jobs. Reuter 
SOUTHLAND <SLC> UNIT RAISES CRUDE OIL PRICES

Citgo Petroleum Corp, a subsidiary of Southland Corp, said it raised the contract price it will pay for all grades of crude oil by 50 cts a barrel, effective Oct 16 The increase brings Citgo's postings for the West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour grades to 19.00 dlrs/barrel, while Light Louisiana SWeet is now priced at 19.35 dlrs. Citgo last changed it crude oil postings on Sept 9. Reuter 
VENEZUELA SEES OIL STABILITY DESPITE GULF ATTACK

Venezuelan Energy Minister Arturo Hernandez Grisanti said he foresaw market stability in the price of crude, despite growing tension in the Gulf augmented by the U.S. military attack on an Iranian oil platform. He told a news conference the market continues to be stable despite all the military action in the Gulf. Reuter 
U.S. DRAFTS SANCTIONS IN ARGENTINA SOY CASE

The U.S. is drafting options including possible trade retaliation against Argentina in a dispute over the differential between soybean and product taxes which Buenos Aires levies on exports. The drafting of retaliation options follows the failure of high-level talks earlier this month to resolve a case filed by the U.S. National Soybean Processors Association, U.S. officials said. The NSPA charged that Argentina's differential export taxes implicitly subsidize soyproduct exports in competition with the U.S. "Our only option is some sort of retaliation to restrict (Argentine) access to our market," said one U.S. source. The U.S. shelved the NSPA case earlier this year after Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said Argentina agreed to end the differential. But when Argentina announced export taxes for the 1987/88 year in July, the differential was narrowed only one pct. Deputy trade representative Michael Smith met Agriculture minister Ernesto Figuerras and Economy minister Juan Sourroille on September 29 and the Argentine officials said they could not narrow the differential further for 1987/88. As a result of the impasse, the U.S. is considering restrictions on imports of items such as Argentine corned beef and finished leather, the U.S. sources said. A decision on reprisals is likely to be made by the Reagan administration soon, they said. Reuter 
SMITHKLINE <SKB> OPENS PLANT IN CHINA

SmithKline Beckman Corp said it opened an 8.5 mln dlr pharmaceutical manufacturing plant in Tianjin, China. The plant will make pharmaceutical products for the joint venture company, Tianjin Smith Kline and French Laboratories. SmithKline said the joint venture combines Smith Kline and French Laboratories, the pharmaceutical unit of SmithKline Beckman, the <Tianjin Medical Co>, and <Hebel Chemical Plant> in Tianjin. The plant has the capability to produce one billion tablets and 200 mln capsules a year. Reuter 
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK PLANS U.S. DOMESTIC BOND

The African Development Bank plans to raise about 200 mln dlrs via a U.S. Domestic bond this year, Milan Kerno, vice president of finance said at a presentation. He said the Bank planned to borrow about 700 mln dlrs in world capital markets in 1987 and roughly the same amount in 1988. Because of the weak condition of the euroyen market, plans for a bond in that sector, which would comprise part of the 700 mln dlrs, have been put on hold, Kerno said. "But we should complete our programme (this year), markets willing," Kerno said, adding the Bank's 1987 borrowing so far totaled about 400 mln dlrs. The Bank's board of directors will meet on October 26 to discuss plans to begin Bank trading in unspecified securities, with desks in Abidjan, Kerno said. Trading would be conducted along similar lines as existing World Bank and Asian Development Bank operations, he said. The Bank now has roughly 1.2 billion dlrs in available liquidity to serve as a basis for trading, although not all of this will be traded at the start. The Bank plans to use the funds gradually over the next three or four years, he said. To facilitate lending increases the Bank tripled paid-in capital to about 18 billion dlrs from six billion in June. German bankers at the presentation criticized the Bank for its overly conservative lending, adding the Bank would do better to invest more capital in loans. Total net equity capital, consisting of subscribed capital and reserves, rose to 1,282 pct of its funded debt in 1986 from 552 pct in 1985, the Bank's statistics showed. Other Bank figures from 1986 showed the Interamerican Development Bank's net equity totaled 302 pct of funded debt, and the Asian Development Bank's 295 pct. Reuter 
MARKET FALL DISCUSSED AT REAGAN LUNCH

President Reagan and his advisers discussed the stock market fall at a previously scheduled "issues lunch" at the White House, officials said. There was no formal comment on the market slide, but an official suggested that a comment might be forthcoming after the market closed. Reagan made no mention of the stock market when he gave a glowing account of recent economic performance at the swearing in of C. William Verity as Commerce Secretary. He said this month would set a record for the longest peacetime expansion on record and added that leading indicators had sent a message of "steady as she goes." Reuter 
NYSE SAYS IT IS CONFIDENT IT CAN HANDLE VOLUME

The New York Stock Exchange said it is confident that its computer systems can handle the pace of trading volume today. "We are confident that whatever volume we have this afternoon, we can handle it," said Richard Torrenzano, a vice president at the NYSE. With two hours of trading left, a record 422 mln shares have traded hands, far outpacing the volume on the market's busiet days. The previous busiest day was last Friday, when 338 mln shares traded. "Our systems have been tested and they can handle heavy volume effectiviy and efficiently," Torrenzano said. He said the Exchange has been in constant contact with the Securities and Exchange Commission concerning today's record breaking decline and heavy volume. He declined to comment on the context of those discussions. Earlier today, SEC chairman David Ruder said a brief trading halt has been discussed as one way of restoring order to the market, but stressed he is not recommending one at this time. He did not say if the option was discussed with the NYSE. Reuter 
SENATE BOSS ASKS REAGAN TO FIGHT STOCK FALL

Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd, pointing to panic selling on Wall Street, urged President Reagan to join Congress in fighting trade and budget deficits. "It is time the administration put policies ahead of politics," Byrd said. Byrd said the president needs "to begin working with Congress to reduce the double deficits in trade and the budget that cause such a cloud on this nation's future." Reuter 
<GLOBAL MOTORS> TO MARKET INDONESIAN VEHICLES

Global Motors Inc said it has agreed to become become the exclusive North American importer of the Lincan Gama, a four-wheel-drive sport vehicle manufactured by <P.T. Indauda> of Indonesia. In a letter of intent it signed with P.T. Indauda, Global said it expects to begin marketing the first Lincan Gamas in mid-1989, with 20,000 units projected to be marketed in the first year. Global is the parent company of Yugo America Inc, importer of the Yugoslavian Yugo vehicle. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON SAYS LOUVRE ACCORD STILL VITAL

Federal Reserve Board Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson said the Louvre Accord is still healthy, but said the United States and West Germany must work out differences over their respective roles in fulfilling the accord. "The Louvre Accord has worked very well in terms of stabilizing exchange rates," he said in response to a question during an American Stock Exchange conference here. He said exchange rates have been stable so far in 1987 as a result of the accord. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON SEES EASING OF INFLATIONARY FEARS

Federal Reserve Board Vice-Chairman Manuel Johnson said the inflationary expectations in the financial markets have eased since the Fed's last half-point increase in its discount rate to 6.0 pct. "We have seen the kind of expectational forces develop I think that we've been satisfied with since our last discount rate move," Johnson said. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has said the most recent discount rate increase on September 4 was largely aimed at quelling inflationary fears in financial markets which he said were largely unfounded. Reuter 
BALLADUR URGES G-7 TO RESPECT LOUVRE ACCORD

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur said the Group of Seven (G-7) industrial countries should respect pledges on monetary policy made in the February Louvre accord on currency stability. "We have to strengthen the cooperation between the seven major industrial countries and remind ourselves of the pledges we made at the Louvre," he told journalists. "They were not simply pledges to maintain currency stability, but also to conduct a certain type of economic and monetary policy," he added. Balladur's comments came after U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker said on Sunday that the U.S. Would have to re-examine the Louvre accords in the light of the rise in West German short-term interest rates. Balladur was one of the main architects of the Louvre accord and has invested considerable political capital in defending them. REUTER 
IRAN VOWS REPRISAL FOR U.S. ATTACK ON OIL RIG

Iran said several people were injured in Monday's U.S. Attack on an Iranian offshore oil site and vowed retaliation, Tehran radio reported. It quoted President Ali Khamenei as saying, "We will definitely retaliate and will not leave this American move unanswered." A broadcast monitored in Nicosia said several civilian personnel on the Rashadat oil platforms in the Gulf east of Qatar were injured when U.S. Warships bombarded them this afternoon. It described damage as "severe." Washington said four American frigates shelled and destroyed two Iranian platforms at the Rashadat (formerly Rostam) field at 1100 GMT on Monday in response to Friday's missile attack on a U.S.-flag ship in Kuwaiti waters. The U.S. Said Iranians used the platforms for military pruposes and had fired on an American helicopter from the rigs earlier this month. Khamenei denied that the platforms had military gear or personnel and said the U.S. Attack lacked miltary value. "With this move Mr. Reagan has committed a big mistake and has definitely increased his problems... REUTER 
U.S SENATE PANEL VOTES TO LIMIT COUNTY LOAN DROP

The Senate Agriculture committee voted to limit changes in county loan rate differentials starting with the 1988 crop as part of a budget deficit reduction package. The panel also approved measures that could trigger larger corn and wheat acreage reduction requirements, increase farmer-held reserve storage payments, reduce a potential milk support price cut, and require advance deficiency payments for producers of major crops. A proposal to require imported tropical oils be labeled on U.S. food products failed by a 10-8 vote. Reuter 
FED'S JOHNSON WARNS AGAINST LOWER DOLLAR

Federal Reserve Board Vice-Chairman Manuel Johnson cautioned against seeking "quick-fix solutions" to persistent U.S. trade and federal budget deficits. In particular, he told an American Stock Exchange conference, a decline in the dollar below current levels would exacerbate financial market conditions. "Trying to artificially depress the dollar severely below current levels ... would exacerbate financial market conditions and lead to further potential for financial problems." Nowhere, Johnson said, are Fed officials hearing that U.S. businesses cannot compete at current exchange rates. He acknowledged the U.S. trade deficit was persisting despite a decline in the dollar's value of 40 to 50 pct in the past two years. But the deficit is improving in volume terms and will soon begin showing improvement. "The stage I think is being set for a healthy, constructive expansion without inflationary instability," he said. Reuter 
NORTHROP MUST PAY KHASHOGGI FIRM - U.S. COURT

The Supreme Court let stand a ruling that Northrop Corp <NOC> must pay 31 mln dlrs to a company controlled by Saudi businessman Adnan Khashoggi. The court denied a Northrop appeal challenging a U.S. arbitration tribunal's ruling that it pay 31 mln dlrs in commissions and interest stemming from arms contracts it won from Saudi Arabia in the early 1970s. Northrop, seeking to sell F-5 fighter aircraft and supporting services to Saudi Arabia, hired Khashoggi's firm in 1970 as its marketing representative. Northrop paid more than 17 mln dlrs in commissions to Khashoggi's firm, Triad International Marketing, from 1971 to 1975. U.S. Defense Department records showed that Northrops' sales to Saudi Arabia during this period totaled 4.2 billion dlrs. The legal battle dates back to 1979, when Khashoggi began arbitration proceedings seeking payment of more than 150 mln dlrs in commissions due under his agreement with Northrop. A federal judge in 1984 threw out the arbitration panel's award of 31 mln dlrs to Khashoggi's firm, but a U.S. Court of Appeals reinstated it last March. Reuter 
EC DOES NOT PLAN STATEMENT ON U.S. STRIKE ON IRAN

The European Community (EC) will not issue a joint statement on the U.S. Attack on Iran for now, diplomats said. They said the latest events in the Gulf were discussed only briefly by foreign ministers over lunch, though member states had been informed by Washington that it was planning military action. "They didn't have enough information to discuss it fully and they wouldn't have agreed anyway," one diplomat said. Belgian Foreign Minister Leo Tindemans said Belgium had always opposed an extension of violence in the Gulf and deeply regretted that the situation had deteriorated. But British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe said the United States was fully entitled to take military action and Francisco Fernandez Ordonez of Spain said the U.S. Strike could be considered an af self-defence. REUTER 
U.S. HOUSE SPEAKER DENIES TRADE BILL HURT STOCKS

House Speaker Jim Wright dismissed charges that the trade bill before Congress contributed to the fall in stock prices on Wall Street. "That is utterly ridiculous," the Texas Democrat told reporters. Treasury Secretary James Baker and other administration officials over the weekend pointed to the pending legislation -- which they brand too protectionist -- as a key factor in the record-setting drop. Reuter 
SECURITY COUNCIL CALLS TALKS AFTER GULF ATTACK

The U.N. Security Council was called to a private meeting on Monday for consultations following the United States attack on an Iranian oil platform. Meanwhile, a U.N. spokesman said that as far as he knew a report to the council and Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar on the action had not been received from the Americans. In Washington, President Reagan said the United Nations was being informed of the attack under the provision of the U.N. Charter regarding notification of actions taken under the right of self-defense. The U.N. spokesman, Francois Giuliani, said Perez de Cuellar had no comment on the attack, taken in response to Iranian action against an American-owned tanker last week, but was trying to find out "what actually happened." Calls to Iran's U.N. commission elicited no response. Reuter 
G-7 SEEN FIGHTING TO KEEP CURRENCY PACT

International monetary officials will rush to paper over the deep cracks that have appeared in the Louvre accord on currency stability to prevent a dollar free-fall and to calm turmoil in world capital markets, economists and currency traders said. "I don't think the Louvre is dead because if it breaks up in an acrimonious way, the potential outcome is a rout of the dollar, higher interest rates and collapsing stock markets. It's in the Group of Seven's interest to calm things down," said Douglas Madison, corporate trader at BankAmerica Corp. In a weekend television interview, U.S. Treasury secretary James Baker sharply criticised a recent rise in West German money market rates and said the eight month-old Louvre pact to foster exchange rate stability needs to be reviewed. His comments rocked the currency markets and helped send the already-fragile U.S. and overseas stock markets into a tailspin. The dollar lost more than two pfennigs in the U.S. to about 1.7740/50 marks and about one yen to 141.25/35 yen. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped more than 200 points at one stage and U.S. Treasury bonds dropped about 1-3/4 points. Reuter 
IRAN SAYS US ATTACK INVOLVES IT IN FULL-SCALE WAR

A top Iranian military official said America's attack on an Iranian oil platform on Monday had involved the United States in full-scale war and Iran would avenge it with a "crushing blow." "The United States has entered a swamp from which it can in no way get out safely," the Iranian news agency IRNA quoted the head of Iran's war information headquarters as saying. The official, Kamal Kharrazi, said Washington had now become involved in what he called a full-fledged war with Iran. It was the first official Iranian reaction to the attack by four U.S. Navy destroyers on the Reshadat oil platform. Reuter 
SENATE PANEL STUDIES LOAN RATE, SET ASIDE PLANS

The Senate Agriculture Committee was expected to consider proposals that would limit adjustments in county loan rate differentials which trigger larger corn and wheat acreage reduction requirements, Senate staff said. A budget-saving proposal drafted by chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt) would limit adjustments in county loan rate differentials to no more than one pct per year from the national average loan rate, starting with 1988 crops. The plan also would allow the Agriculture Secretary to increase the unpaid acreage reduction requirement for corn by "an appropriate amount to generate savings" if projected corn stocks exceeded 6.0 billion bushels. Leahy's proposal would also allow a larger 1988 wheat set aside if projected stocks surpassed 1.9 billion bushels. Reuter 
U.S. INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY USE RATE 81.2 PCT IN SEPTEMBER, UNCHANGED FROM AUGUST



U.S. LAWMAKERS SAY STOCK DIVE CALLS FOR SUMMIT

Two congressmen urged President Reagan to to call congressional leaders to a domestic economic summit to settle budget and trade matters they said contributed to the stock market fall. Noting the nosediving New York Stock Exchange, Rep David Obey, a Wisconsin Democrat and former chairman of the Congressional Economic Committee, said "for the last five years this economic recovery has been running on borrowed money and borrowed time." In another House speech, Democrat Donald Pease of Ohio said a domestic economic summit was "desperately needed." Reuter 
USX <X> UNIT HIKES CRUDE OIL POSTED PRICES

Marathon Petroleum Company, a subsidiary of USX Corp, said it lowered posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts with an effective date of October 16. The increase brings posted prices for West Texas Intermediate and West Texas Sour to 19.00 dlrs a barrel each. South Louisiana Sweet was increased to 19.35 dlrs a barrel. Several indepndent oil companies such as Permian Corp and Coastal Corp <CGP> said they had moved prices up effective last Friday the day Sun Co <SUN> announced a 50 cts a barrel increase to 19.00 dlrs a barrel. Reuter 
FED ARRANGES THREE-DAY SYSTEM REPOS

The Federal Reserve entered the government securities market to arrange three-day system repurchase agreements, a spokesman for the New York Fed said. Federal funds were trading at 7-5/8 pct at the time of the direct injection of temporary reserves, dealers said. Reuter 
SEC HEAD NOT URGING U.S. TRADING HALT AT PRESENT

Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman David Ruder said a brief trading halt has been discussed as one way of restoring order to the stock market, but stressed he is not recommending one at present. Speaking to reporters, Ruder said he has been in frequent contact with New York Stock Exchange Chairman John Phelan about the market's record drop today. "I'm not afraid to say that there is some point, and I don't know what that point is, that I would be quite anxious to talk to the New York Stock Exchange about a very temporary halt in trading," Ruder said. Ruder, who spoke to reporters after addressing an American Stock Exchange-sponsored investors' conference here, said that the SEC does not have the legal authority to order a trading halt. Any trading halt, which would probably last no more than a half-hour, would have to be approved by the stock exchanges, Ruder said. Reuter 
ARIZONA SILVER <ASC> REPORTS ON BURRO CREEK

Arizona Silver Corp said diamond drilling on its Burro Creek Mine Property, located 65 miles southeast of Kingman, Ariz., has begun. The company said a report indicated that the Burro Creek project area which covers 800 acres, could have potential reserves of three to four mln tons of gold and silver mineralization. Drill sites have been established and a diamond drilling program consisting of an initial 5,000 feet of drilling began October 13, the company said. Reuter 
FDIC'S SEIDMAN SAYS HIGHER RATES COULD HARM BANKS

Federal Deposit Insurance Corp Chairman William Seidman said he would be concerned about the impact on banks of a further sharp rise in interest rates. However, Seidman, attending the American Bankers Association convention, said he did not expect rates to rise much higher and said the outlook for the U.S. economy and for banking was sound. "The potential for greater interest rate rises gives us concern. We see nothing right now in the outlook that causes us to believe rates are going much higher or that the economy is not sound," Seidman told a news conference. Reuter 
COASTAL <CGP> RAISES OIL POSTED PRICES

Coastal Corp said that effective October 16 it had raised posted prices for crude oil by 50 cts a barrel. The increase brings West Texas Intermediate to 9.00 dlrs a barrel and West Texas Sour to 18.10 dlrs a barrel. Sun Co <SUN> announced that it would make a 50 cts a barrel increase late Friday bringing WTI to 19.00 dlrs a barrel and traders said that other oil companies could be expected to increase prices. Reuter 
STUDY SAYS PORK LEANER THAN USDA FIGURES SHOW

An Iowa State University study showed pork contains considerably less fat than indicated by long-established U.S. Department of Agriculture statistics, the National Pork Producers Council (NPPC) said. Six of the seven muscle cuts evaluated in the study averaged 4.3 pct fat or less, well below American Heart Association guidelines for recommended foods. Eighty pct of all the raw boneless rib chops evaluated in the study contained less than six pct fat, the NPPC said. Meanwhile, USDA Handbook 8-10 - long used as the established authority on nutrient composition, indicates a fat content for center loin pork of 7.3 pct, the NPPC said. Robin Kline, a dietitian and Director of Consumer Affairs for the NPPC said he was not surprised at the wide discrepancy between the study and the USDA handbook. "Handbook 8-10 is based to a certain extent on information that has been accumulated over the past 30 years. The statistics in it about pork do not reflect the hog of today which is about 50 pct leaner than it was 20 or 30 years ago, thanks to genetic improvements and better feeding practices," Kline said. The study, funded by NPPC with producer checkoff money, evaluated pork carcasses from 47 Iowa producers in categories from 0.7 to 1.3 inches of backfat. Researchers measured the fat content of the seven muscles before cooking, and the fat, moisture and tenderness of cooked boneless rib chops. Reuter 
TASS DENOUNCES U.S. ATTACK ON IRAN AS ADVENTURISM

The official Soviet news agency Tass denounced a U.S. Attack on an Iranian oil-drilling platform in the Gulf on Monday as military adventurism and said it would bring no dividends to the Reagan administration. Tass commentator Mikhail Krutikhin said the administration had embarked on an adventurist path in order to deflect attention from the scandal in which the United States sold arms to Iran and the profits were diverted to Nicaraguan rebels. "The confrontation is a fact now. What is obvious is that the latest military adventure will not bring political dividends to the American administration," Krutikhin said. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze abruptly left a parliamentary session earlier on Monday, sparking diplomatic speculation that they were concerned with an urgent matter of foreign affairs. Soviet officials have previously criticized the United States for sending naval forces into the Gulf, saying their presence serves to increase tension. Moscow is officially neutral in the war between Iran and Iraq. It is a major arms supplier to Iraq but has also sought broader contacts with Iran in the last year. Krutikhin said: "The United States has undertaken an act of armed aggression against Iran, the probability of which has long been spoken of by Washington officials." Reuter 
IRAN SAYS U.S. NAVAL FORCES ATTACKED TWO PLATFORMS

Iran said U.S. Naval forces attacked two of its oil platforms in the southern Gulf on Monday afternoon, the Iranian news agency IRNA reported. IRNA, received in Nicosia, said an informed source at the Iranian oil ministry identified the two platforms as Resalat and Reshadat, about 60 miles from Iran's Lavan island oil storage site. Regional shipping sources earlier said three Iranian offshore oil sites at Sassan, Rostam and Rakhsh had been attacked at 7.00 A.M. (0300 GMT) on Monday by unidentified aircraft. In Washington, U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said four U.S. Destroyers attacked and destroyed an Iranian oil platform about 120 miles east of Bahrain. REUTER 
U.S. NAVAL FORCES ATTACK IRANIAN OIL PLATFORM

U.S. warships attacked and destroyed an Iranian oil platform on Monday in retaliation for Friday's Iranian attack damaging a U.S.-flagged ship, U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said. When asked how much was left of the oil platform, Weinberger said, "Nothing." "There was no Iranian reaction," he said. "... We consider this matter is now closed." Weinberger said four U.S. destroyers attacked the platform about 120 miles east of Bahrain in the central Gulf with fire at 0700 EDT, Weinberger said. "We chose a platform used by the Iranians to interfere with and be a source of potential attack on convoys...," Weinberger said at a Pentagon briefing. "We know it has been used indeed, to not only launch small boat attacks on shipping but to fire on U.S. helicopters... "It's removal will contribute significantly to the safety of U.S. forces in the future," Weinberger said of the U.S. Navy's operation to escort oil tankers through the Gulf. "We do not seek further confrontation with Iran but we will be prepared to meet any escalation of military actions by Iran with stronger countermeasures," Weinberger said. He said the 20 to 30 Iranian personnel on the oil platform were given a 20-minute warning to abandon the platform. "As far as we know they did abandon the site," he said. Weinberger was asked why the United States had chosen to attack an oil platform rather than Iranian Silkworm missile platforms blamed by Washington for Friday's attack. Reuter 
AIRCRAFT ATTACK IRANIAN OIL RIGS IN SOUTHERN GULF

Unidentified jets attacked three Iranian oil rigs in the southern Gulf early on Monday, setting at least one of them ablaze, regional shipping sources said. Earlier today in Washington, U.S. Television networks had reported that American forces launched a retaliatory strike against Iran late Sunday, attacking two Iranian offshore oil drilling platforms and setting them ablaze. The shipping sources said Iran's Sassan, Rostam and Rakhsh offshore oilfields were attacked at 0700 local (0300 GMT) by a wave of jet fighter bombers. Smoke was seen spiralling up from the Rostam field soon after. At least one of the other two targets was also believed to be ablaze, the sources said. The Sassan and Rostam fields have been targets for Iraqi air strikes in the past, but Baghdad had not reported any southern Gulf missions prior to news of the latest attack. Shipping and military sources in the region have said Iran used its southern Gulf rigs as bases to launch helicopter and later speedboat attacks on neutral ships in the waterway. U.S. Officials had been meeting on a response since Friday when an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged a U.S.-flagged ship. President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made a decision on the U.S. Response to Friday's Iran attack but would not say what the decision was. REUTER 
QUANTECH <QANT.O> GETS NASDAQ EXCEPTION

Quantech Electronics Corp said its common stock will continue to be quoted on the NASDAQ system due to an exception from National Association of Securities Dealers capital and surplus requirements, which it failed to meet as of August 31. The company said it believes it can meet conditions imposed by the NASD for the exception, but there can be no assurance that it will do so. Reuter 
NBC NEWS SAYS U.S. HAS RETALIATED AGAINST IRAN

U.S. television networks said on Monday that U.S. forces launched a retaliatory strike against Iran late Sunday, apparently attacking two Iranian offshore oil drilling platforms. NBC News said it understood six Iranians had been pulled from the sea. It said cautiously that U.S. forces attacked late Sunday and that two Iranian oil platforms east of Bahrain were ablaze as a result, but CBS News and other networks said flatly that U.S. forces attacked the Iranian oil platforms. U.S. officials had been meeting on a response since Friday when an attack on a Kuwaiti port severely damaged a U.S.-flagged ship. President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made a decision on the U.S. response to Friday's Iran attack but would not say what the decision was. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday the attack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday was almost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile. Reuter 
PENTAGON HAS NO INFORMATION ON IRAN ATTACK RUMORS

A U.S. Defense Department spokesman said he had no information on London oil and stock market rumors that the United States had launched a retaliatory strike against Iran for an attack on Friday that damaged a U.S. shi "I don't have anything," Major Randy Morger said. "I have no information at all." President Reagan said on Sunday he had already made a decision on the U.S. response to Friday's Iran attack but would not say what the decision was. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said on Saturday the attack on a U.S.-flagged ship in Kuwaiti waters on Friday was almost certainly by an Iran Silkworm missile. Some of the rumors in the London markets were that the United States had launched an offshore strike against Iranian missile installations. Reuter 
BALLADUR INSISTS ON MAINTENANCE OF LOUVRE ACCORDS

French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur issued a firm call for the continued faithful application of the Louvre accords on currency stability by all major industrial countries. Balladur, responding to weekend remarks by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker that the U.S. Would take another look at the accords, said "I firmly desire a faithfull and firm adherence by all the major industrial countries to the Louvre accords -- in both their letter and spirit." On Sunday, Baker said last week's rise in short-term West German interest rates was not in keeping with the accords. The Louvre accords, agreed in Paris last February, called for stability among the major currencies after a prolonged dollar slide. The accords were reaffirmed by the Group of Seven Finance Ministers in Washington last month. But Baker said at the weekend that the West German rate rise was "not in keeping with the spirit of what we agreed to." "What I'm really saying is that they should not expect us to simply sit back here and accept increased tightening on their part on the assumption that somehow we are going to follow them," he added. REUTER 
IRAN WARNS U.S. AGAINST RAISING TENSION IN GULF

Iran warned the United States on Monday against exacerbating the Gulf crisis, saying it would endanger American interests. Tehran Radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation, said a spokesman for Iran's War Information Headquarters was responding "to U.S. Officials' remarks about taking military action against Iran." The radio also quoted an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying Iran would respond decisively to any aggressive measure by the United States. The radio said the spokesman made the statement "following the attack on a Kuwaiti ship under the U.S. Flag and comments by American officials on carrying out retaliatory action against Iran." The spokesman said, "Any U.S. Military aggression against Iran will certainly be the beginning of an extensive clash in the Persian Gulf, and amidst this our principled policy is to confront any act which escalates tension." REUTER 
BONN MINISTRY HAS NO COMMENT ON BAKER REMARKS

The West German Finance Ministry declined to comment on weekend criticism by U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker of recent West German interest rate increases. Baker said the U.S. Would re-examine the February Louvre Accord to stabilise currencies reached by leading industrial democracies. The rise in West Germany short term interest rates was not in the spirit of an agreement by these nations in Washington, which reaffirmed the Louvre pact, he said. A Finance Ministry spokesman, asked for an official ministry reaction to Baker's remarks, said he could make no comment. REUTER 
IRAN PRESIDENT DOUBTS U.S. ACTION AGAINST IRAN

Iranian President Ali Khamenei said he doubted the U.S. Was in position to take violent action against Iran in the Gulf, Tehran Radio reported. The U.S. Government "is in a very difficult situation now and it is not clear if it has the necessary elements for a violent action," the radio quoted him as saying in an interview with the English language daily Tehran Times. In Washington, President Ronald Reagan said he had decided on a response to Iran, which the Americans blame for two missile attacks on U.S.-related tankers in Kuwaiti waters last week, but declined to say what the response was. Khamenei said the U.S. Government had to take some action to demonstrate its authority, "but on the other hand any violent act in the Persian Gulf will greatly harm long-term U.S. Interests," the radio, monitored in Nicosia, reported. On efforts for a ceasefire in the Iran-Iraq war, Khamenei said: "Declaration of the aggressor and a ceasefire should be concurrent. Formation of a panel to determine the aggressor necessarily preceeds the ceasefire." He also rejected a peace-keeping committee or a buffer force as instruments to implement a July 20 U.N. Security Council order for a ceasefire in the seven-year-old Gulf war. REUTER 
AMERICAN EXCHANGE INTRODUCES INSTITUTIONAL INDEX

The American Stock Exchange said it has introduced options with expirations of up to three years on the Institutional Index. With the ticker symbol <XII>, the index is a guage of the core equity holdings of the nation's largest institutions, the exchange explained. The new listings represent the first long-term options to be traded by the Amex, it added. It said the long-term Institutional Index options began trading Monday with expirations of December 1988 <XIV> and December 1989 <XIX>. The Amex said a third long-term option with an expiration of December 1990 will begin trading following the December 1987 expiration. It said strike prices on the long-term options have been set at 50 point intervals with initial strikes of 250, 300 and 350. To avoid conflicting strike price codes, the 350 stike prices will carry the ticker symbols <XVV> for the option expiring in December 1988 and <XVX> for the option expiring in December 1989. Reuter 
