EC MINISTERS BID TO SAVE DAIRY ACCORD

European Community (EC) farm ministers were fighting hard early today to prevent a deal on cutting overflowing milk production from turning sour before trying to agree widescale reforms in other surplus sectors. Meanwhile, protests from angry European farmers over successive attempts to scale down unwanted Community food production appeared to be gathering strength. In the northeastern Spanish city of Saragossa thousands of Spanish farmers battled with police during a march to demand a better deal from Brussels. The farmers traded stones for tear gas and rubber pellets and occupied local government buildings while in the southern city of Malaga, citrus growers dumped more 20 tonnes of lemons on the streets in protest at EC duties. Towards the end of last week, about 10,000 angry West German farmers marched through the streets of Hanover burning effigies of Agriculture Minister Ignaz Kiechle while in France pig-farmers barricaded roads in protest at falling prices. Europe's 12 mln farmers are furious over plans by the European Commission to cut subsidised prices and severely limit farmers' automatic right to sell unwanted food into public stores at high guaranteed EC prices. In the toughest-ever proposals for the annual price review, at which EC ministers set the levels of subsidies, Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen has included measures that could result in price cuts for some products of up to 11 pct. The plans form part of an on-going campaign to reform surplus-creating farm policies that have become a political embarrassment at home and commercial flash-point abroad and threatened to leave the Community with no cash for other areas. Andriessen's latest package comes only months after a decision to cut dairy production by 9.5 pct over two years and to slash beef prices by around 10 pct. That decision, agreed in outline last December after virtually nine days of non-stop negotiations, was hailed as the most significant step yet in the reform offensive, but has since run into difficulties over the fine print. West Germany and Ireland are objecting to the new rules governing the sales of surplus butter into cold stores, but the Commission is loathe to abandon its position as the accord has been used as the inspiration for Andriessen's latest package. Ministers failed yesterday to overcome the problem, and resumed negotiations in a bid to finalise the details before starting the price review which is confidently predicted to last many months. EC farm spending currently swallows two thirds of an overall annual budget of around 40 billion dlrs and is almost entirely blamed for a projected budget shortfall later this year of some 5.7 billion dlrs. Reuter 
GERMAN BANKS SEEK GREATER BRAZIL LINK WITH IMF

West German banks would like Brazil to work more closely with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) with a view to seeking a solution to the country's debt problems, senior West German banking sources said. The sources, speaking ahead of a meeting later today between Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro and his West german counterpart Gerhard Stoltenberg, also believed Brazil should come up with a convincing economic recovery program. Their comments echoed those of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson, who met Funaro yesterday. Funaro is currently on a European trip seeking to involve governments in negotiations with commercial banks on rescheduling part of Brazil's foreign debt, which totals some 109 billion dlrs. But Lawson told Funaro Brazil had to solve its problems with the banks rather than governments. Diplomatic sources in Bonn said Funaro would leave early tomorrow morning for Zurich after meeting Stoltenberg this evening. Funaro has rejected suggestions for negotiations with the IMF and said there is no question of Brazil agreeing to an austerity program with the Fund. However, the West German banking sources said institutions here felt it was particularly important that Brazil presented a credible recovery program and that there be a "rapprochement" with the IMF. "Consultations are the least that can be expected," said one banker. Funaro's trip follows the decision by Brazil 10 days ago to suspend interest payments on 68 billion dlrs of commercial debt. It has also frozen bank and credit lines deposited by foreign banks and institutions worth about 15 billion dlrs. One senior banker closely involved in Brazilian debt negotiation offered qualified support for a call from Funaro for a change in the structure of the advisory committee of banks which has coordinated Brazilian debt since 1982. Funaro said yesterday that U.S. Banks, holding 35 pct of Brazilian debt, were over-represented on the 14-bank advisory committee with 50 pct of the committee seats. He said Brazil might adopt a different approach to its creditor banks, involving separate discussions with the regions. Such a move would be in Brazil's interest, since European banks have been more supportive than U.S. Banks of alternative debt solutions, such as interest capitalisation. The senior banker was strongly opposed to a purely regional approach, saying: "There must be one committee and one solution." But he added: "There must be an understanding that special requests from special regions be taken into account." German banks had objected to the fact that the idea of interest capitalisation had been rejected in the committee. It was imperative that alternative options be considered. "The menu must become richer," the banker said. Banking sources said commercial banks would not be involved in today's talks with Funaro. A spokesman for the Bundesbank in Frankfurt said the central bank would also not be represented. West German banks have taken a more relaxed attitude to the Brazilian suspension of interest payments than institutions in the United States, because of their lower exposure. According to Bundesbank data from September last year, West German bank exposure to Latin America of slightly under 16 billion marks represented less than five pct of all foreign credit. REUTER 
OILS/FATS STOCKS SEEN FALLING SHARPLY IN 1986/87

Visible stocks of 17 oils and fats are probably peaking now and are likely to fall sharply by October 1 this year, the Oil World newsletter said. Oil World forecast that stocks of oils and fats may be cut to only 9.8 mln tonnes at the end of this season, compared with 10.6 mln a year earlier. Its survey covered 13 oils -- soy, cotton, groundnut, sun, rape, sesame, corn, olive, coconut, palmkernel, palm, lin and castor -- and four animal oils and fats -- butter, fish oil, lard and tallow/greases. Oil World's analysis predicted only a slight production increase of 0.5 mln tonnes in the year to end-September 1987, compared with increases of 3.6 mln and 4.0 mln tonnes in the previous two seasons. It said world consumption was continuing to rise. Unusually low prices prevailing since early 1986 had stimulated demand for both food and non-food purposes, it said. World consumption could increase by a record 2.8 mln tonnes to 71.8 mln tonnes this season and would be even higher if the Indian government did not artificially curb domestic demand. Oil World said it did not expect the European Community (EC) to introduce a vegetable oils tax, but if such a tax were introduced it would have a negative impact on EC consumption. Reuter 
BRAZILIAN FINANCE MINISTER MEETS STOLTENBERG

Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro, on the third leg of a trip to explain his country's stance on debt to European governments, met West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg for talks this evening and the two men were continuing their discussions over dinner, Brazilian delegation sources said. They said the Funaro and Stoltenberg discussed Third World debt in general and Brazil's debt position in particular but declined to give further details. Funaro was scheduled to travel to Switzerland tomorrow, they added. Reuter 
WEST GERMANY, TANZANIA AGREE DEBT RESCHEDULING

West Germany and Tanzania have signed an agreement on rescheduling 145 mln marks worth of commercial credits, the Finance Ministry said. Tanzania will now have until April 1, 1997 to pay back the credits, some of which had originally fallen due in 1979, a ministry statement said. Interest on the credits will be paid at market rates. REUTER 
GERMAN INSTITUTE SEES INFLATION RISING IN 1987

The cost of living in West Germany will likely be about 0.5 pct higher on average in 1987 than in 1986, when the cost of living actually fell by an average 0.2 pct in the first recurrence of "negative inflation" since the 1950s, the HWWA economic research institute said. The re-emergence of inflation will result mainly from the fading of two factors which influenced the fall in the 1986 cost of living - the steep decline in both oil prices and the value of the dollar, the institute said in a report. The institute said inflation will see a rising trend in the course of 1987, but will average only 0.5 pct for the year as a whole because year on year rates will remain negative in the first part of 1987. Provisional inflation figures for February released last week showed the cost of living last month was 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. In January prices had fallen 0.8 pct against the same month a year earlier. The HWWA said its forecast assumed the dollar would remain around 1.80 marks and oil prices would range between 15 and 17 dlrs per barrel. REUTER 
WORLD BANK SAYS S. AMERICAN DEBTORS STILL TALKING

Latin American debtor nations are still willing to negotiate on their debts, World Bank director for Latin America and the Caribbean Rainer Steckhan said. In an article published in today's Handelsblatt daily, Steckhan said despite decisions by Peru, Costa Rica, Ecuador and Brazil to suspend some interest payments, these nations were still willing to talk constructively about their debts. "These countries are still prepared to negotiate, and the instruments of cooperation developed thus far provide the means to deal with the crisis over time," Steckhan said. Several highly indebted nations have made great efforts to meet their debt payments, especially Latin American countries, Steckhan said. Chile achieved gross national product growth of five to six pct last year and quadrupled its trade surplus from 1984, despite lower prices of key commodity exports like copper. Mexico, hit by a catastrophic earthquake and declines in world oil prices also boosted its non-oil exports by one third in 1986, the highest growth rate in its post-war history. The World Bank's annual lending to Latin America rose to 4.8 billion dlrs last year from three billion in 1984, he said. REUTER 
GERMAN ECONOMIC OUTLOOK SEEN FAIRLY BRIGHT

The outlook for the West German economy is relatively bright, with gross national product expected to expand by three pct this year, Kiel University's Institute for World Economy said. The GNP forecast by the institute, one of five leading economic research bodies in West Germany, is more optimistic than that of the other institutes, some of which have recently reduced their GNP forecasts to between two and 2.5 pct. In a report the Kiel institute said West Germany's export outlook has not deteriorated fundamentally despite the mark's strength against the dollar and other major currencies. "The danger that exports will slump in 1987 appears, all in all, limited," the report said. "On the contrary, a slight rise in exports can be expected." The institute said past experience has shown West German exporters will move to counterbalance currency factors by cutting costs, trying to penetrate new markets and adjusting their product ranges. They will be aided in 1987 by an expected slight rise in economic growth in industrial countries. At the same time, the decline in exports to oil producing countries looks set to slow this year. West German GNP growth in 1987 will be led by renewed advances in domestic consumption and investment spending, both of which will in turn be buoyed by an expansionary monetary policy, the institute said. However, it said the labour market would see only a slight improvement because companies will be reluctant to hire additional workers due to higher labour costs caused partly by agreed reductions in working hours. The institute cautioned that the expansionary stance of monetary policy in West Germany was likely to bring a marked acceleration of inflation. It also warned that what it called the worldwide synchronization of monetary policy heightened the risk of a new global recession. It said central banks in industrialized countries, including the Bundesbank, had followed the Federal Reserve Board's expansionary course. The institute said this in turn was bound to lead eventually to a rise in worldwide inflation and a shift in U.S. Policy towards a more restrictive policy. Other central banks were likely to follow suit, causing a recession that could aggravate the debt crisis of developing countries as well as increase protectionism around the world. Although Germany cannot entirely shield itself from the negative effects of the global synchronization of monetary policy, it should do all it can to strengthen the forces of growth at home. The institute said this could be done by ensuring that fiscal policy fosters a willingness to work and invest. Taxes should be cut by a greater amount than currently planned, and wage increases in 1987 and 1988 should be markedly lower than in 1986. It also said the Bundesbank should reduce inflationary pressures by cutting the current rate of growth in money supply to about four pct. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED

The Bundesbank left credit policies unchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and the Lombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER 
KIECHLE SEES POSITIVE ASPECTS IN EC MILK ACCORD

West German Farm Minister Ignaz Kiechle, who objected strongly to this week's European Community agreement to cut milk surpluses, conceded the accord would have the positive effect of stabilizing prices. According to the text of a speech made in the town of Trudering, near Munich, Kiechle said farmers' earnings would benefit from more stable prices. He said he had rejected the agreement because he preferred there to be no change in the EC's system of intervention. However, an objective analysis of the accord showed it contained positive elements, he said. No formal vote was taken on the EC accord, but a spokesman for the Agriculture Ministry in Bonn said Kiechle had made it clear in discussions in Brussels that he did not accept it. Ireland and Luxembourg were also opposed. Reuter 
WORLD BANK ISSUES 232 MLN U.S. DLR FINANCE PACKAGE

The World Bank is issuing a multicurrency financing package totalling 232 mln U.S. Dlrs, coordinator DG Bank Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank said. The package includes a 250 mln mark five year straight eurobond with a 5-3/8 pct coupon priced at par, led by DG. The bond, which is a private placement, matures on March 17, 1992. It will be listed in Frankfurt beginning in May, with no precise date yet specified. Denominations are 5,000 and 50,000 marks. Details of fees were not immediately available. The package also includes a five year 100 mln guilder eurobond with a 5-3/4 pct coupon priced at par. The Dutch guilder issue will be led by Rabobank Nederland. The third bond in the package is a seven year, five billion yen bond with a 4.95 pct coupon priced at par, led by The Norinchukin Bank. The package also includes a 25 mln Swiss franc 10-year credit agreement, with interest at 4-7/8 pct, underwritten by Swiss Volksbank, DG said. REUTER 
DUTCH GROWTH LIKELY TO SLOW, JOBLESS RISE IN 1987

Leaks of a major Dutch official economic forecast due to be published on Monday indicate reduced economic growth and a renewed rise in unemployment this year, political and market sources say. Concern over an anticipated fall in Dutch competitiveness this year against a background of an average 2-1/2 pct wage increase, zero inflation and a firm guilder has triggered some calls for a change in monetary policy to help boost growth. But whatever the government's response, the central bank will stick to its policy of keeping the guilder firm, they say. The official forecasting agency Centraal Planbureau (CPB) publishes its 1987 outlook at the start of a week which will also see a key parliamentary debate on government finances and the economy. Merchant bank Pierson, Heldring en Pierson - in an estimate reflecting general sentiment - said last month that Dutch economic growth was now seen around one pct. Domestic consumer spending is not expected to offset the decline in export growth caused by slowing growth in West Germany, the main Dutch trading partner, and the lower dollar, Pierson said in its February economic outlook. The latest growth forecasts are well below a 1.5 to two pct growth figure seen by the CPB early last month and forecasts of 2.5 pct economic growth in 1987 made last September. The fall in unemployment is bottoming out and the government has already admitted it will not meet its goal of reducing unemployment by an annual 50,000 from 1986 to 1990. Some analysts and industry leaders have questioned central bank policy of pegging the guilder firmly to the mark and if necessary keeping interest rates up to support the guilder. Employers federation NCW chairman Fred Lempers criticised the guilder's revaluation in line with the West German mark in last January's European Monetary System (EMS) realignment and expressed concern over its effect on competitiveness. But the employers federation VNO noted the Dutch economy had become more competitive since 1980 and the fall of the dollar was affecting this gain more than the EMS realignment. Some analysts also question the central bank's decision not to copy the latest Bundesbank discount rate cut and instead lower money market rates and abolish a credit quota surcharge. Central bank president Wim Duisenberg has defended the move saying the bank had adjusted the rates with the most impact on the money market, noting "the (4.5 pct) discount rate is at the moment not the most important Dutch rate because it is already far below the market rates." Central bank officials say the heavy dependence on trade of the Dutch economy requires a stable exchange rate, and interest rate policies serve that goal. Analysts noted a large capital outflow from the Netherlands recently as foreign investments in Dutch stock are being sold to take profits. Loosening the tie between the guilder and the mark would reduce international confidence in the guilder and make it more dificult to attract foreign capital, they said, noting Dutch interest rates rose sharply when the guilder was not revalued completely in line with the mark in a 1983 EMS realignment. Many Dutch banks have reacted favourably to the decision not to copy the last German discount rate cut, but Pierson warned it could actually add to uncertainty over the guilder. Some analysts noted friction between the Finance Ministry and the central bank, with Finance Minister Onno Ruding having said before the Bundesbank discount rate cut he favoured lower Dutch rates but that the Germans should move first. One analyst said Ruding wanted to bring interest rates down to reduce the government debt burden. A Finance Ministry spokesman said lower interest rates were needed but denied any suggestion of conflicting views between the ministry and the central bank. "The cabinet's policy is steady, the guilder has to stay with the mark," he said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN FISHMEAL IMPORTS HIGHEST IN 15 YEARS

West German gross fishmeal imports rose 60,260 tonnes, or 14.6 pct, last year to 471,891 tonnes, the highest level since 1972, trade sources said. Re-exports fell by 6.6 pct, resulting in a surge in net imports from 175,901 to 251,708 tonnes, an increase of 43 pct. Total West German consumption was estimated at around a high 287,000 tonnes, largely reflecting attractive prices. The sources, however, could not give comparative figures for 1985. South American producer countries supplied 97 pct of West German requirements, with Chile shipping 229,176 tonnes (1985 - 182,959) and Peru 210,513 (147,014) tonnes. The two South American countries' share of the West German market rose to 93.2 pct from 80.2 pct because imports from Ecuador fell to 21,110 tonnes in 1986 from 51,722 in 1985. West Germany imported 56,823 tonnes of fishmeal in December, up from 46,236 tonnes in the same 1985 month, with re-exports at 22,262 tonnes after 25,062 a year earlier. Reuter 
ICO QUOTA TALKS FAILURE PARALYSE HAMBURG MARKET

The failure of International Coffee Organization talks on the reintroduction of quotas has paralysed business on the Hamburg green coffee market in the past week, trade sources said. There was only sporadic activity for spot material, which was mainly requirement buying, they said, adding that pre-registered coffees were no longer available. They said they expected Brazil and Colombia to open export registrations for May shipment next week. However, the president of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, Jorio Dauster, said yesterday he had not yet decided when its registrations would reopen. REUTER 
SOME SHIPPING RESTRICTIONS REMAIN ON RHINE

Limited shipping restrictions due to high water remain in force on parts of the West German stretch of the Rhine river between the Dutch border and the city of Mainz but most are expected to be lifted this weekend. water authority officials said The restrictions, caused by high water levels, include speed limits and directives to keep to the middle of the river to prevent damage to the river banks. The high water was expected to recede within two days to below levels at which the restrictions come into force. Traffic was halted briefly late Tuesday night, Wednesday and parts of Thursday on stretches of the Rhine between Bonn and Koblenz but the shipping bans were lifted, the officials said. Shipping is now permitted on all parts of the West German section of the Rhine, with restrictions in some areas. Reuter 
GERMAN CASH IN CIRCULATION UP AT FEBRUARY'S CLOSE

Cash in circulation in West Germany rose by 2.8 billion marks in the last week of February to 121.5 billion, a gain of 8.3 pct over the same month last year, the Bundesbank said. Cash in circulation is one of two components of the West German money supply which the German central bank is targeting to grow between three and six pct this year. Gross currency reserves in the week rose by 200 mln marks to 109.5 billion. Foreign liabilities fell 100 mln to 22.9 billion, giving a net currency reserves increase of 300 mln to 86.6 billion. Commercial bank minimum reserve holdings at the Bundesbank fell 300 mln marks to 51.9 billion marks at the end of February, averaging 51.2 billion over the month. The rediscount debt of the banking system fell 800 mln marks to 55.2 billion marks, the Bundesbank said. Banks made heavy use of the Lombard emergency funding facility to meet month-end payments and borrowed 3.1 billion marks, a rise of 2.9 billion over the week before. The net position of public authorities at the Bundesbank declined 6.7 billion marks in the last week of February. The federal government drew down 3.8 billion marks of its Bundesbank cash deposits, which had stood at 4.1 billion in the third week of February, and also borrowed a 1.8 billion in credit from the central bank. Federal states' deposits fell 1.5 billion marks to 1.3 billion and their cash credits dropped 400 mln to 300 mln. The Bundesbank balance sheet total rose around 5.44 billion to 222.22 billion marks. REUTER 
GERMAN 1988 TAX CUTS RAISED BY 5.2 BILLION MARKS

Senior officials in the West German coalition government said tax cuts planned for next year would be increased by 5.2 billion marks, in line with a pledge made by Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg at last month's international monetary conference in Paris. Gerold Tandler, General Secretary of the Christian Social Union Party, detailing the cuts at a news conference also attended by officials from the Christian Democratic Union and Free Democratic Party, said all of the additional 5.2 billion mark reduction would represent net tax relief. An increase in revenue from other sources was not planned. The reductions will be added on to a package of tax cuts already planned for 1988 amounting to some nine billion marks. Tandler said three billion marks of the extra tax relief would be accounted for by reducing the rate of marginal increase in income tax. An increase in personal tax allowances would save taxpayers 1.4 billion marks. Extra tax allowances for people whose children are being educated would cut 300 mln marks from the tax bill. A further 500 mln marks would be accounted for by increasing the level of special depreciations for small- and medium-sized companies. The extra fiscal measures planned for next year are part of a general reform of the tax system which will come into effect in 1990. Stoltenberg had said in Paris that part of this reform, which will cut taxes by a gross 44 billion marks, would be introduced next year, ahead of schedule. The West German government had come under pressure from the United States to stimulate its economy with tax cuts. But Stoltenberg said in a speech last night in Hamburg that, while the economy would continue to expand this year, the rate of growth was uncertain. The government said in January it was aiming for real growth in Gross National Product this year of 2.5 pct, but some economists have revised their predictions down to two or below. Stoltenberg said: "We remain on a course of expansion. Whether (this will be) under two pct, as some people believe, or around 2.5 pct as some others expect, or even closer to three pct, as the Kiel World Economic Institute forecast a few days ago, remains open at the moment." REUTER 
GERMAN GOVERNMENT NEEDS SEEN RAISING BOND YIELDS

Increased federal government borrowing needs and a growing unwillingness by foreign investors to buy mark assets could push yields in German public authority bonds higher this year, bond market sources say. "At the moment we have a sideways movement in the short-term rates. But how rates move in the long end will depend strongly on foreigners," one portfolio manager for a large securities investment house in Frankfurt said. The sources also said the government had already stepped up its borrowing programme in anticipation on increased needs. Friday's loan stock was the third this year already, the sources noted. It carried a 10-year maturity, a coupon of six pct and price of 100-1/4 to yield 5.97 pct at issue. This compared with the last issue which had a 5-3/4 pct coupon priced at 99-3/4 pct for a yield of 5.75 pct. But dealers said the terms were not enough to attract foreign investors, and the federal government would have to push yields higher in future if it wanted to borrow again soon. Sources noted federal government issues had also increased in size, with the introduction of a four billion mark volume only starting last May. One finance ministry economist said "It isn't more. It's just the size (of each bond) which has increased." He added conditions in the capital market currently remained fairly favourable for raising new debt. Until recently, federal issues sold very strongly abroad, with up to 90 pct of some being placed with foreign investors. With the recent stabilisation of the U.S. Dollar, however, foreign investors have begun to back away from the market, as hopes of further currency gains in marks diminish. Sources said the government has may have already stepped up its borrowing, having raised more than 18 billion marks. The government made net borrowings of 23 billion marks in 1986. But Bundesbank statistics showed that net borrowing through bonds was 26.6 billion. The sources said this indicated a move by the government out of other types of debt to gain access to foreign funds through the more acceptable loan stock form. Although new credit needs were partly inflated by a large amount of issues maturing recently, other factors, including the government's tax reduction program, would also reduce income next year. "The problem here will be the tax reform," the portfolio manager said. He added that the government's cut in its top income tax rate to 53 pct from 56 pct in 1988 would make it difficult for the government to reduce borrowings. The sources said the government would fall far short of covering all of its 40 billion marks in lost revenue from the tax reform by making expenditure cuts and would be forced to fall back on debt markets in one form or the other. The portfolio manager noted that besides the three federal government loan stocks so far this year, it has also fallen back twice to raise a total 6.43 billion marks through the issue of fixed-rate medium-term "Kassenobligation" notes. A finance ministry economist said the government did not expect to have any trouble keeping to its plan to borrow only a net 22.3 billion marks this year. Though many sources agreed, they added that the trend would probably not continue next year as the further tax cuts come into effect. "I would expect the efforts for a further tax reform would mean government borrowing will increase," the manager said. Bond prices last week were slightly firmer on balance, with the Bundesbank's public authority bond yield calculation falling to 5.64 pct on Friday from 5.66 a week earlier. But sources said foreign demand for the new federal government loan stock was slack, as sentiment grows that the dollar may now rise against the mark. "The demand wasn't so good," a dealer for a German bank in London said. The dollar's recent slight appreciation against the mark even meant that foreign investors have sold mark bonds recently, some dealers said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN FARMERS MARCH AGAINST EC POLICIES

About 8,000 West German farmers marched through the northern city of Kiel today in a protest against European Community (EC) agricultural policies, organisers said. The demonstrators burned straw effigies of the two West German members of the EC's 17-man Commission, Karl-Heinz Narjes and Alois Pfeiffer, and demanded their removal from office. Speakers at a rally also called on the government to take a tougher stance in dealings with the Commission. The protest was the latest of several by West German farmers against Commission proposals to cut EC farm spending.The farmers say the proposals will put many of them out of business. Reuter 
LITTLE MOVEMENT ON HAMBURG FISHMEAL MARKET

The Hamburg fishmeal market saw little movement in the past week with demand slack as in other protein feed sectors, trade sources said. Prices edged up on firmer origin offering levels and the stronger dollar. Sellers quoted 64 pct fishmeal at between 640 and 650 marks per tonne free on truck for spot and between 630 and 640 marks for April/Dec. International demand was also slow but some inquiries from Far Eastern buyers were noted in South American producer countries, the sources said. Chile is said to have good catches in northern and southern fishing grounds, with offers unchanged at 330 dlrs per tonne c and f North German ports. Peru's catches differ regionally and stocks are low. Sellers quoted a nominal offering level of 320 dlrs per tonne c and f north German ports. Ecuador was not in the market and catches are said to be poor. Denmark has seasonally low catches, with 72 pct meal offered at 315 crowns per 100 kilos cif North European ports for April/Oct deliveries. Iceland has good catches and sellers quoted a price of 5.45 dlrs per percentage point protein cif North European ports. Norway was not in the market. Reuter 
WORLD BANK TO BRING BORROWING FORWARD THIS YEAR

The World Bank intends to bring borrowing forward into the first half of 1987 because it expects global interest rates to rise by year end, World Bank vice president and treasurer Eugene Rotberg said. He told a news conference that rates in the U.S., Japan, West Germany and Switzerland were near their lows. "The weight of opinion is (that in a year from now) there is a higher probability there will be one pct higher than one pct lower interest rates," he said. The World Bank had not issued floating rate notes so far this year because of the expectation of higher interest rates. The policy of the World Bank was to maintain liquidity at a level that gave the bank flexibility to decide when, where and how much to borrow, Rotberg said. Cash in hand was now about 50 pct of the next three years' anticipated net requirement and comprised 25 pct of outstanding debt and 66 pct of its debt maturing within five years. Although the World Bank had pioneered the swap market, it did not intend to launch new financial instruments just for the sake of innovation, Rotberg said. Of a total of 74.5 billion dlrs debt outstanding, only some eight billion had been swapped into another currency. Many recent innovations were either unfair to investors or unfair to borrowers. Until the World Bank was confident that this was not the case, it would not adopt new instruments. The World Bank would raise 90 pct of the funds needed over the next year with methods used before, Rotberg said. However, for some 10 pct of new requirements the bank would try out new instruments such as bonds with warrants. The World Bank had publicly offered 60 bonds in Germany since the first issue was launched in 1959, he said. 
GERMAN SUGAR OFFERS PUT AT ABOUT 100,000 TONNES

The West German intervention board said about 100,000 tonnes of sugar have been offered into intervention so far. A spokesman, speaking from Frankfurt, told Reuters offers have increased recently but contracts have not yet been concluded. A European Commission spokesman in Brussels earlier confirmed that one mln tonnes of sugar had been offered to intervention boards in various member states. The intervention board spokesman in Frankfurt said, "One million tonnes is an awful lot and the Community's coffers are almost empty. This could turn into a serious political problem." West German trade sources said they believed the one mln tonne offer by the EC sugar industry into intervention would have a neutral market impact overall. Reuter 
 German net currency reserves rise 400 mln marks to 87.0 billion - Bundesbank



DUTCH SUGAR TRADE DENY INVOLVEMENT IN OFFER

Dutch sugar traders deny involvement in a plan to offer more than 850,000 tonnes of sugar to intervention in protest at EC export policy and prices, traders told Reuters. Although some 2,500 tonnes of sugar have been offered to intervention in the Netherlands, Dutch producers and traders said this sugar was actually Belgian and was being offered by the Belgian industry. "We sympathise with the actions of the French, West German and Belgian traders and producers, but we are not party to it," a spokesman said. EC Commission sources said yesterday French traders planned to sell 775,000 tonnes into intervention stocks, West German traders 75,000 tonnes and Dutch traders 2,500. Dutch trade sources gave the same figure for France, but estimated up to 110,000 tonnes offered by German traders and producers. The Dutch spokesman added, "The weekly export tender policy and prices are squeezing the European sugar industry, and this is the only way in which they can really register their protest. "These are desperate actions, but we believe that most of this offered sugar will be withdrawn within the three-week breathing space allowed." REUTER 
GERMAN PUBLIC AUTHORITY BUNDESBANK HOLDINGS FALL

The net position of federal states worsened in the first March week, cutting public authority net holdings at the Bundesbank by 500 mln marks, the central bank said. States' cash deposits at the central bank fell to 800 mln and they also drew down 1.2 billion marks in book credit, 900 mln marks more than in the prior week. By contrast, however, the federal government was able to reduce its credit drawdown at the central bank by 900 mln marks to 900 mln. Despite the stronger states' net needs in the week, their cash position and other market dependent influences just about balanced the outflow of liquidity from the money market through an increase in cash in circulation, the Bundesbank said. Cash in circulation rose by 1.4 billion marks in the week to 122.9 billion. Liquidity also came in through the maturing of short-term treasury bills bought from the Bundesbank in the prior week. Gross currency reserves rose in the week by 400 mln marks to 109.9 billion. Foreign liabilities of the Bundesbank were largely unchanged at 22.8 billion marks, giving a rise in net currency reserves of 400 mln to 87.0 billion, it said. The Bundesbank said its balance sheet total fell by 3.77 billion in the week to 218.45 billion. REUTER 
DRESDNER BANK UNIT SAYS NOT WORRIED ON BRAZIL DEBT

Deutsch-Suedamerikanische Bank AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F>, said it was not worried about Brazil stopping its interest payments. Board member Herbert Mittendorf told a news conference that Brazil's example was unlikely to be followed by other Latin American countries. He pointed out that the region's debt rose by only 2.8 pct last year to a total 396 billion dlrs. The countries' efforts to further economic growth and to consolidate budgets were "not unsuccessful." But the slump in oil prices and the decline in commodity prices hampered these efforts, he said. Latin American countries' exports fell last year by about 16 pct to 80 billion dlrs, with imports declining slightly to around 65 billion dlrs, Mittendorf said. The region's 1986 trade surplus was halved to an estimated 15 billion dlrs, he said. The cut in exchange earnings of oil exporting countries was only partly offset by the advantages gained by the region's oil importing states, he noted. The region's principal debtors are Brazil and Mexico, each owing about 100 billion dlrs at the end of last year, followed by Argentina with around 49 billion dlrs, Venezuela with 33 billion and Chile with 20 billion dlrs debt. Deutsch-Suedamerikanische Bank welcomed Mexico joining the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in mid 1986, which it saw as an effort to integrate the country to a larger extent into the world economy. However, realistic exchange rates were needed if the debtor countries were to compete in the world market, Mittendorf said. In this respect an easing of protectionist barriers was imperative, he said. The conversion of debt into equity was regarded as an important additional step towards debt consolidation. West German exports to Latin America declined by 4.1 pct in 1986 to 11 billion marks. Shipments to Mexico fell 19 pct to 1.9 billion marks and to Colombia by 15 pct to 600 mln marks, Mittendorf said. Exports to Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Central America were also lower last year than in 1985, while shipments to Brazil rose 11.5 pct to around two billion marks. Exports to Argentina went up by over three pct to 1.5 billion marks and those to Paraguay surged by 42 pct to 106 mln marks, he said. Brazil was West Germany's main Latin American supplier, but shipments fell to 4.4 billion marks from 6.4 billion in 1985. REUTER 
ROCKEFELLER SAYS BRAZIL SOLUTION WILL BE FOUND

David Rockefeller, chairman of the international advisory committee of Chase Manhattan Bank NA, said an accommodation would be found between Brazil and its commercial bank creditors to solve the problem of the nation's recent interest payment halt. "I think one will find that the banking community, the Brazilian government and the international banking authorities will be talking for the next several weeks and I am very hopeful that we would find an accommodation." Rockefeller told bankers at a luncheon. Brazil announced on February 20 that it was suspending interest repayments on about 68 billion dlrs of private sector debt owed to commercial banks. Rockefeller said the recent tour by Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro of major industrial nations was a sign that Brazil wanted to be cooperative. But it was notable that Funaro did not meet with the creditors immediately affected, the commercial bankers, he added. Brazil's moratorium on commercial debt becomes critical by end-May, when payments would be 90 days overdue, obliging U.S. Regulators to downgrade Brazilian debt, financial sources said. This would require banks in turn to cease accruing interest and set aside expensive loan loss reserves. Rockefeller reminded bankers of the depth of concern over Latin American debt at the Toronto World Bank/International Monetary Fund meeting in 1982, and said an accord would be reached in the current circumstances just as it had been then. "(Brazilian authorities) have no more interest in seeing their credit sources cut off then we have in seeing their obligations stop," he added. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKS SAY UNCERTAINTY ABOUT ECONOMY GROWING

Uncertainty is growing about the prospects for the economy as orders for industry fall and companies scale back investment plans, the German Savings Banks and Giro Association said. Exporters expect foreign demand to remain weak, while industry is less optimistic than it was, the association said in a report. However, last month's agreement among the six leading western industrialized countries to keep currencies around present levels was expected to be a stabilizing influence for exporters, it added. The banking association said the possibility of using monetary policy to stimulate the economy should not be overestimated. Another small drop in already low interest rates could not be expected to cause any significant rise in purchases of consumer or capital goods, it said. The Bundesbank's half-point cuts in the discount and Lombard rates in January have largely exhausted the scope for any further monetary moves, the association added. On Tuesday the Federal Statistics Office said gross national product stagnated in real, seasonally and calendar adjusted terms in the fourth quarter of 1986 compared with the third quarter. The Economics Ministry, commenting on the figures, said GNP in the 1987 first quarter was also expected to be relatively weak. Bank economists have forecast the economy will either stagnate or contract slightly in the first quarter. Official first-quarter figures are due in early June. REUTER 
GERMAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL 0.4 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German wholesale prices fell 0.4 pct in February from January to stand 6.9 pct lower than in February 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. In January wholesale prices rose 0.8 pct from December to stand 8.6 pct below their level in January 1986. Wholesale price declines were led by starch products, down 13 pct, light heating oil 11 pct lower, heavy heating oil 10 pct lower and green coffee down 6.9 pct. Among higher wholesale prices were those for fresh vegetables, up 17 pct, fresh fruit up 12 pct and eggs up 8.9 pct, the statistics office said in a statement. REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SEES GOOD SOVIET TRADE PROSPECTS

Soviet-West German trade is expected to develop favourably due to Moscow's increasing openness to East-West economic relations, Dresdner Bank AG's Moscow representative Michael Stein said. He told a bank presentation the Soviet Union was last year hit by the fall in world oil prices, which cut export revenue from oil-related products and natural gas, and its overseas buying power was also adversely affected by the lower dollar. Dresdner Bank economist Alfred Apholte said the Soviet Union's large currency and gold reserves had softened the impact of the dollar weakening and oil price drop. REUTER 
WEST GERMANY RESCHEDULES SIERRA LEONE DEBT

West Germany and Sierra Leone signed an agreement to reschedule 26 mln marks of principal and interest payments on loans, the West German Foreign Ministry said. A statement said the agreement related to interest and principle and obligations from previous reschedulings due between July 1, 1986 and November 13, 1987 as well as arrears from the period up to June 30, 1986. The statement said the payments were rescheduled for 1992 to 1996 under the accord, which followed a multilateral rescheduling pact agreed by "Paris Club" creditor nations on November 19, 1986. REUTER 
VW AFFAIR COULD DELAY SHARE SALE - STOLTENBERG

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg was quoted as saying a possible currency fraud at Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F> may affect government plans to sell its 20 pct stake in the carmaker this year. "It is all very unpleasant for us because we have decided to privatise the VW shares this year. We will now have to ask ourselves the question whether we can keep to this date," he told Bild am Sonntag newspaper in an interview. Bild am Sonntag released the text ahead of publication Stoltenberg did not elaborate on the share sale. The West German government owns 20 pct of VW ordinary share capital and has said previously it plans to sell it either in 1987 or 1988. Stoltenberg told Bild am Sonntag the possible fraud showed there had "clearly been reprehensible criminal conduct below the level of the responsible management board." "I do not want to prejudge results but the immediate and serious question which poses itself is whether certain management board members have kept their areas of business under appropriate control," he was quoted as saying. VW said last week it had discovered possibly fraudulent currency transactions which could cost the company 480 mln marks and had asked state prosecutors to investigate. It said on Friday it had dismissed the head of its foreign exchange department, Burkhard Junger. VW also said it suspended six staff, including financial transfer department chief Guenther Borchert and the head of the central cash and currency clearing department, Siegfried Mueller. REUTER 
GERMAN RETAIL TURNOVER RISES ONE PCT IN JANUARY

West German retail turnover rose a real one pct in January compared with the same month a year earlier, according to provisional data from the Federal Statistics Office. There were 26 shopping days in January this year, the same as in January 1986, a Statistics Office statement said. A Statistics Office official added retail turnover had risen by 7.6 pct in December compared with the year-ago month, a slight upward revision from the 7.5 pct increase provisionally posted. REUTER 
 German February central bank money grows annual 7.5 pct (January, same) - prov. Bundesbank data



GERMAN FEBRUARY CENTRAL BANK MONEY GROWTH STEADY

West German central bank money stock was growing at an annualized 7.5 pct in February, unchanged from the 7.5 pct reported in January, provisional data from the Bundesbank showed. The figure was thus outside the three to six pct range set by the Bundesbank for 1987. In absolute terms, the measure rose to 223.2 billion marks in February from 221.8 billion in the prior month. The data showed that the stock grew at an annualized 8.6 pct over the six months to February, slower than the 9.4 pct rise in the same period to January. Of the two components comprising central bank money stock, cash in circulation rose to 111.7 billion marks in February from 110.9 billion in January, the Bundesbank data showed. This gave an annualized 8.3 pct rise over the six months to February, down from a 10.2 pct increase over the six months to January. Minimum reserve requirements on domestic liabilities grew to 111.5 billion marks in February from 110.9 billion in January. This yielded an annualized 8.8 pct rise over the six month to February, up slightly from an 8.6 pct increase over the same period to January. REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987

Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said. It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' efforts to achieve further firming of the price led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S., The world's biggest crude oil producer. Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed the central banks' limits and real growth of their gross national products, it said. Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said. Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen. These factors and South Africa's unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underline the firmer sentiment, it said. However, Australia's output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. REUTER 
GERMAN BANK SEES HIGHER GOLD PRICE FOR 1987

Gold is expected to continue its rise this year due to renewed inflationary pressures, especially in the U.S., Hamburg-based Vereins- und Westbank AG said. It said in a statement the stabilisation of crude oil prices and the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries' efforts to achieve further firming of the price has led to growing inflationary pressures in the U.S. Money supplies in the U.S., Japan and West Germany exceed central bank limits and real growth of their gross national products, it added. Use of physical gold should rise this year due to increased industrial demand and higher expected coin production, the bank said. Speculative demand, which influences the gold price on futures markets, has also risen, the bank said. These factors and South Africa's unstable political situation, which may lead to a temporary reduction in gold supplies from that country, underscore the firmer sentiment, it said. However, Australia's output is estimated to rise to 90 tonnes this year from 73.5 tonnes in 1986. Reuter 
BANKS SEE GERMAN GROWTH OF AT LEAST TWO PCT

External risks for the economy have increased, but growth of two to 2.5 pct this year is still possible, according to President of the West German Federation of Banks, Hanns Christian Schroeder-Hohenwarth. Schroeder-Hohenwarth told a news conference the further fall of the dollar since the start of this year and the revaluation of the mark against European currencies meant West German exporters were facing a "rough wind." However, domestic demand was continuing to rise and private consumption in particular would support the economy, he said. He saw good prospects for consumer industries. Schroeder-Hohenwarth said economic policy now had to concentrate on strengthening this domestic growth. In this context, he welcomed a decision by the government to increase the scope of tax cuts due in 1988. He added, a planned reform of the fiscal system scheduled for 1990, which was worked out by coalition partners this month, was an "important step in the right direction." The government plans to cut corporation tax to 50 pct from 56 pct. However, Schroeder-Hohenwarth said the decision to cut the maximum rate of income tax to only 53 pct from 56 pct was "rather half-hearted." REUTER 
WEST GERMAN PRESIDENT HOLDS TALKS WITH ALFONSIN

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker met Argentine President Raul Alfonsin for talks on the first day of the German leader's four-day visit. Local officials placed great importance on the meeting because Weizsaecker is considered a key backer here for more flexible repyament terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr foreign debt. "I suppose (the debt) will be unavoidable" in talks, said Juan Carlos Pugliese, speaker of the lower house of the Argentine Parliament and one of Alfonsin's top political allies, before the meeting. He said that "Germany in particular and most European countries" have supported more liberal repyament terms for Argentina's debt, Latin America's third largest. An Argentine mission is now in the United States concluding negotiations on debt repyayment with 11 creditor banks. Reuter 
CREDITORS/DEBTORS SHARE RESPONSIBILITY-WEIZSAECKER

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker said both debtor and creditor nations share responsibility for the Third World's foreign debt crisis. Weizsaecker, in a speech on the first day of an official visit to Argentina, said: "Debtor and creditor countries have created this situation jointly. They also share responsibility for finding lasting solutions." Local officials have payed great importance to Weizsaecker's visit because they consider him a key backer of more flexible repayment terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr foreign debt, Latin America's third largest. Weizsaecker, speaking at a reception held for him by President Raul Alfonsin at Buenos Aires' City Council hall, also said no one could overlook the enormity of the obstacle posed by the foreign debt to countries like Argentina. "Democracy in Latin America must not be endangered because of misery or new injustices," he said. Argentine officials said they might halt debt payments last month if creditor banks did not agree to a new 2.15 billion dlr loan. An Argentine mission is now in the U.S. For talks with 11 banks, seeking to win an easing of repayment terms and secure the loan. Weizsaecker said Argentina has had difficulties with the European Community over trade barriers and subsidies for grain exports. "We are making efforts to eliminate them with the help of balanced interest from all parties," he said. Argentina has said the barriers and subsidies cut unfairly into the country's traditional markets for its grain exports. Weizsaecker arrived for a four-day visit, opening a Latin American tour which includes Bolivia and Guatemala. He held brief talks on Sunday with Brazilian President Jose Sarney during a stopover in Brasilia. REUTER 
CREDITORS/DEBTORS SHARE RESPONSIBILITY-WEIZSAECKER

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker said both debtor and creditor nations share responsibility for the Third World's foreign debt crisis. Weizsaecker, in a speech on the first day of an official visit to Argentina, said: "Debtor and creditor countries have created this situation jointly. They also share responsibility for finding lasting solutions." Local officials have payed great importance to Weizsaecker's visit because they consider him a key backer of more flexible repayment terms for Argentina's 51 billion dlr foreign debt, Latin America's third largest. Weizsaecker, speaking at a reception held for him by President Raul Alfonsin at Buenos Aires' City Council hall, also said no one could overlook the enormity of the obstacle posed by the foreign debt to countries like Argentina. "Democracy in Latin America must not be endangered because of misery or new injustices," he said. Argentine officials said they might halt debt payments last month if creditor banks did not agree to a new 2.15 billion dlr loan. An Argentine mission is now in the U.S. For talks with 11 banks, seeking to win an easing of repayment terms and secure the loan. Weizsaecker said Argentina has had difficulties with the European Community over trade barriers and subsidies for grain exports. "We are making efforts to eliminate them with the help of balanced interest from all parties," he said. Argentina has said the barriers and subsidies cut unfairly into the country's traditional markets for its grain exports. Weizsaecker arrived for a four-day visit, opening a Latin American tour which includes Bolivia and Guatemala. He held brief talks on Sunday with Brazilian President Jose Sarney during a stopover in Brasilia. REUTER 
LUFTHANSA SAYS FARE POLICY IN LINE WITH EC RULES

The West German airline, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, believes the way it decides fares is in line with European Community (EC) guidelines despite an official probe, a company spokesman said today. The Federal Cartel Office in West Berlin is investigating whether agreements reached by European airlines over fares are a breach of EC regulations on competition. Hubertus Schoen, the Cartel Office's spokesman, said the investigation had been running for some weeks. A spokesman for Lufthansa told Reuters: "Lufthansa presumes that the way we decide fares corresponds with EC regulations." Airlines did not traditionally have to comply with a clause in the Community's treaty forbidding companies in member states from reaching accords likely to hinder free competition. However, Schoen said that last year the European Court of Justice had ruled that this clause should also apply to air traffic. The Cartel Office"s probe came in the wake of this. The Office had not yet officially contacted Lufthansa, but Schoen said the airline would be asked for information about the way fares were decided. It would then be decided if the practice was a breach of article 85 of the EC treaty. Reuter 
 EC COMMISSION TO VISIT BONN AT KOHL'S INVITATION

West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl has invited the European Community's 17-man Commission for talks in Bonn next month in a bid to repair strained relations, EC diplomats said. The Commissioners, led by President Jacques Delors, will pay a two-day visit to Bonn on April 1-2 when they were due for a meeting with the principal West German cabinet members. The meeting, the first of its kind between the Commission and the government of a member state, was originally meant to focus on problems posed by West Germany's federal constitution. But they said the meeting was now likely to be dominated by Commission plans to restructure the EC's exhausted finances and its costly farm policy, which have provoked strong opposition from Bonn. Kohl has written two letters to Delors, complaining that the plans would hit West German farmers hard. His farm minister Ignaze Kiechle has publicly criticised the two German members of the Commission for failing to oppose them. This caused protest from Brussels where the Commission tries to guard the independence of its members from the governments that nominate them. REUTER 
EC OILS TAX NO LONGER MAJOR ISSUE - ASSOCIATION

The proposed European Community (EC) tax on vegetable oils and fats is no longer a major issue on the agenda and the EC Commission merely used it as a threat, the West German Feed Stuffs Industry Association (MFI) said. Association chairman Ulrich Wagner told a news conference the West German feed industry believes the EC does not seriously contemplate the introduction of such a tax because it would end in another transatlantic trade war. "We have just avoided a trade conflict with the U.S. And the Commission used the tax threat to calm national farm lobbies." American Soybean Association (ASA) president-elect Wayne Bennett said yesterday in The Hague that U.S. Soybean producers were confident the tax would be rejected. Bennett, who is leading one of three soybean delegations on a lobbying tour of EC capitals, will also visit Bonn on Thursday and Friday. There are indications the Bonn government will also reject the proposed tax, Wagner said. Reuter 
GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES FALL 0.3 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German producer prices fell 0.3 pct in February from January and were 4.2 pct below prices in February last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In January, producer prices rose 0.2 pct from December, the first monthly rise since October 1985, but they were down 4.4 pct from a year earlier. The Statistics Office said light heating oil producer prices fell 22 pct in February from January while heavy heating oil prices fell 24 pct. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TOMORROW

The Bundesbank will not hold a press conference after its regular fortnightly council meeting tomorrow, a spokeswoman said in answer to enquiries. Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl will chair the meeting. The next meeting is scheduled for April 2. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN BANKS SLOWLY CUTTING KEY SAVINGS RATES

West German commercial banks are cautiously cutting key savings and lending rates, banking sources said. The cuts follow nearly two months after the Bundesbank reduced leading interest rates, far longer than the usual interim period. A Deutsche Bank AG <DBKG.F> spokesman said it is cutting leading savings rate for private customers on a regional basis by 0.5 percentage points to two pct. Dresdner Bank AG <DRSD.F> and Commerzbank AG <CBKG.F> have initiated similar moves. Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft AG <BKFG.F> cut rates 0.5 pct generally. The delay was partly due to commercial banks' desire to gauge customer reaction to a similar move by regional savings banks. A fall in customer savings because of lower rates could reduce cheap refinancing available to banks, forcing them to draw down relatively expensive funds from other sources, one economist at the German Banking Association said. But the volume of savings funds may not be substantially undercut by lower savings rates because many customers are parking funds in savings accounts in the hope they can reinvest them at higher yields in the future, he said. He said this may conflict with Bundesbank aims to move more funds from relatively short-term deposits to longer-dated securities to reduce strong growth in its central bank money supply aggregate. The aggregate showed annualized growth of a provisional 7.5 pct in February against the fourth quarter of last year, unchanged from January. The growth rate was outside the expanded target range of three to six pct. Few banks have so far reduced lending rates to private customers, though lending rates for corporate customers are beginning to decline. REUTER 
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST

The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year. The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn. The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year. The DIW said that even if the economy recovers in the remaining three quarters, it was unlikely that demand and production would rise strongly enough to bring GNP growth up to 1.5 pct. Other institutes and economists have recently revised their forecasts for German 1987 growth to around two pct. In a report DIW disputed arguments by other economists that the economy was showing mixed development, with domestic demand healthy but foreign demand weak. DIW said the crucial split was between weak demand for capital goods, and strong demand for buildings and consumer goods, not between foreign and domestic demand. It noted that domestic demand for capital goods had been hit in recent months by the weakness of exports, which had caused West German firms to scale back investment plans. Service industries, unlike manufacturing industry, were continuing to do well because they relied on consumer demand, it said. In a separate report the HWWA economic research institute in Hamburg said West Germany's real trade surplus would fall markedly this year. However, the nominal trade surplus would show little change from 1986's record 112.2 billion marks because of a further improvement in the terms of trade on average in 1987 compared with 1986, it said. REUTER 
GERMAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE LOWERS GROWTH FORECAST

The DIW economic research institute said West German economic growth in 1987 is unlikely to reach the 1.5 pct rate it had forecast earlier this year. The institute, whose forecasts are more pessimistic than those of the other four leading German institutes, said the economy had passed its peak in the summer of 1986, and its prospects had dimmed significantly since the autumn. The DIW repeated earlier predictions that gross national product (GNP) in the first quarter of 1987 would contract in real, seasonally adjusted terms against the weak final quarter of last year. Reuter 
STOLTENBERG CONSIDERS RAISING SOME INDIRECT TAXES

Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said he was looking for ways to help finance a planned tax reform without increasing value-added tax but could not rule out raising some indirect taxes, for example, on tobacco. Stoltenberg also told parliament that closing tax loopholes would contribute towards the 19 billion marks the government is seeking to finance part of its 44 billion mark tax reform package for the 1990s. He confirmed that a temporary and limited increase in the borrowing requirement was also being considered. Chancellor Helmut Kohl yesterday said a temporary rise in borrowing was acceptable but stressed his government would exercise strict discipline in spending. New net borrowing was 23.0 billion marks in 1986 compared with 37.2 billion in 1982. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK LEAVES CREDIT POLICIES UNCHANGED

The Bundesbank left credit policies unchanged after today's regular meeting of its council, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. The West German discount rate remains at 3.0 pct, and the Lombard emergency financing rate at 5.0 pct. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKS SEE LOW INTEREST RATES CONTINUING

The Association of German Cooperative Banks said in a financial survey that domestic interest rates would continue to remain low for the time being. It said the Bundesbank could hold them down despite strong foreign influence and it saw no interest-straining factors in the economy that could affect the long-term capital market. The inflation rate of one pct also gave no occasion for higher nominal interest rates. But a probable rise in inflation late this year could give very slight grounds for a rise in nominal rates at year's end and next year, it said. The association said generally low interest rates, prospects of lower taxes, a stable dollar rate and expected strong domestic demand led it to believe that the investment climate would remain friendly and the economy would continue its slow but very sure growth. The Bundesbank had managed successfully to keep interest rates down on the short-term money market although its policies had exerted little effect on the long-term capital market, which was so important for investment financing and thus for the course of the economy, it said. In view of the limits to the possibilities monetary policy had in influencing the longer-term capital market, the association saw little sense in wanting to boost the economy through a short-term and expansionist monetary policy. On the other hand it also saw no reason for sticking dogmatically to the money supply target for the whole of 1987. The association said time would show to what extent speculative foreign money and short-term invested domestic money would distort money supply developments. The Bundesbank could hold down money market rates with the highly effective instrument of sale and repurchase transactions, it said. Reuter 
WEIZSAECKER CALLS FOR EASIER ARGENTINA DEBT TERMS

West German President Richard von Weizsaecker called on creditor banks to ease pressure on Argentina's foreign debt repayment terms. "We cannot remain indifferent to the pressure of creditor banks, since there is correlation between political stability and the economic situation," Weizsaecker told reporters. Argentina said last month it would suspend debt payments if creditor banks did not loosen repayment terms and grant a new 2.15 billion dlr loan. Argentina's debt is Latin America's third largest at 51 billion dlrs. Weizsaecker, on a four-day official visit to Argentina, said: "Argentina's problems require joint action from creditor and debtors countries," and not prepared recipes from creditor banks. A group of ecologists staged a demonstration to protest Argentina's plans to build a fourth nuclear power plant and a German company's role in the project as a contractor. Earlier, Weizsaecker said that the potential of Patagonia, the barren tableland covering a third of Argentina, could assure the economic future of the country. REUTER 
GERMAN M3 RISES 2.6 BILLION MARKS IN FEBRUARY

West German M3 money supply rose a seasonally adjusted 2.6 billion marks in February to 1,035.1 billion, the Bundesbank said. The rise compares with a revised 14.8 billion mark increase in January and a 2.2 billion rise in February 1986. REUTER 
NO BRAZIL SOLUTION WITHOUT IMF, GERMAN BANKER SAYS

A solution to Brazil's debt problems is unthinkable without the involvement of the International Monetary Fund, Juergen Sarrazin, management board member of Dresdner Bank AG responsible for Latin America said. Sarrazin told the business daily Handelsblatt that Brazil's interest payments moratorium had cost it the goodwill of many banks. "Now there will certainly be no solutions without the IMF," he said. "Alternatives which could be imagined before, such as bringing the IMF in with us in a loose form, are over," he said. Sarrazin, who through Dresdner represents German banks in several rescheduling coordinating committees, noted that Brazil was still prepared to negotiate. But he said work in the coordinating committees had already run into difficulties before Brazil's interest moratorium. Justified calls by debtors for more flexibility from the banks were blocked because U.S. Regulations made solutions such as capitalising of interest virtually impossible, he said. Although many European banks were opposed to the use of interest capitalisation, "this was an alternative which has to be brought in," Sarrazin said. REUTER 
EC AND COMECON ENDS TALKS WITH PROGRESS

The European Community (EC) and Soviet-led Comecon ended talks here, having made progress on setting up formal trade relations, but no breakthrough because of Comecon's refusal to recognise West Berlin as part of the EC, delegates said. Negotiators were trying to reach agreement on the draft of a joint declaration setting up official relations after 30 years of mutual non-recognition. John Maslen, head of the EC delegation, told Reuters as he emerged from the final session: "We made some progress, but we have called for another meeting." Officials, who asked not to be named, said the Comecon team had refused to accept a clause in the draft declaration which would recognise West Berlin as part of the 12-nation EC. Under the 1957 Treaty of Rome all contracts and agreements signed by the Community must contain this territorial clause stipulating West Berlin is an integral part of the EC. An EC negotiator taking part in the three-day talks said: "We wanted the territorial clause in, but Comecon said no." A joint statement issued after the talks said progress was made towards clarifying positions, but another meeting would be necessary to complete the work. Any decision in principle to set up relations would require approval by the Community's Council of Ministers and by the executive committee of Comecon. Zdzislaw Kuroski, deputy director of Comecon, who heads the East bloc delegation, told Reuters ahead of today's session: "We have narrowed our differences on a range of questions, but not on all questions." Asked whether Comecon would accept EC insistence that any joint declaration stipulate West Berlin as part of the Community, he replied: "This question is not contained in the draft which our side presented." West German diplomats said they would insist on including the clause on West Berlin in any EC-Comecon agreement. The talks followed an earlier round between the two trading blocs here last September and the first-ever direct talks between the EC and the Soviet Union on establishing diplomatic relations in January. The EC trades with individual Comecon member states despite non-recognition of Comecon. Last year, the EC had a five billion dlr trade deficit with East European states, about half the deficit of the previous year, due to a drop in the price of Soviet oil imported by the EC. REUTER 
GERMAN MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH SLOWS IN FEBRUARY

West Germany's money supply growth slowed in February after January's sharp rise but the trend is still definitely upward, the Bundesbank said in a statement. Growth in the traditionally broad M3 aggregate was only moderate in February. While cash in circulation, deposits with statutory withdrawal notice and sight deposits grew sharply, short-term time deposits fell after expanding unusually strongly in January. In the six months to February, M3, which excludes holdings of German non-banks abroad, grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 8.5 pct after 9.8 in the six months to January. Compared with February 1986, M3 rose 7-1/2 pct. In the six months to February, M2, which excludes time deposits with statutory withdrawal notice, rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 8.8 pct and M1, which consists of cash and sight deposits, rose seven pct. International transactions of non-banks again led to a significant inflow of funds, the Bundesbank said. Net claims of commercial banks and the Bundesbank against foreigners, refecting these foreign payments, increased by 9.1 billion marks in February, little changed from January's rise. But in contrast to January, the dampening effect of the inflow on domestic credit demand outweighed the expansionary effect on money growth, the Bundesbank said. Outstanding bank credits to companies and private individuals remained virtually unchanged in February. A sharp drop in short-term company credits, which reflected the foreign funds inflow, was balanced by a moderate rise in long-term credits and a sharp rise in credits for securities. At the end of February total bank credits to the private sector were 4-1/2 pct above the February 1986 level. The effect of public authority cash movements on the money supply was slightly expansive, the Bundesbank said. Although banks acquired large amounts of public authority paper, public authorities drew down book credits at commercial banks and the Bundesbank. Capital formation strengthened in February and slowed money supply growth to a larger extent than in January. A total of 7.7 billion marks in long-term funds was placed with banks after 6.6 billion the previous month. REUTER 
EC AGREES TO REDUCE DIESEL EXHAUST EMISSIONS

The European Community (EC) agreed on new rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and buses in an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vast stretches of the region's forests. Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreed member states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next few years the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the main source of acid rain endangering forests and lakes. The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, with tougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 and for all new vehicles from October 1990. The EC's executive Commission says the emission level of nitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a year from three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if all heavy vehicles met the new standards. There are an estimated nine mln trucks and buses in use in the EC, according to Commission figures. The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to move towards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonn requested permission to do so to encourage the use of low-pollution cars, diplomats said. Reuter 
EC AGREES REDUCTION OF DIESEL EXHAUST EMISSIONS

The European Community (EC) agreed tough new rules to cut diesel exhaust emissions from trucks and buses in an attempt to reduce air pollution threatening vast stretches of the region's forests. Diplomats said EC environment ministers meeting here agreed member states would have to reduce by 20 pct over the next few years the emission of nitrogen oxide, widely seen as the main source of acid rain endangering forests and lakes. The reduction would be compulsory for heavy vehicles, with tougher standards imposed for new models from April 1988 and for all new vehicles from October 1990. The EC's executive Commission says the emission level of nitrogen oxide was expected to drop to 2.4 mln tonnes a year from three mln tonnes within the 12-nation Community if all heavy vehicles applied to the new standards. There are an estimated nine mln lorries and buses in use in the EC, according to Commission figures. The ministers also gave West Germany a go-ahead to move towards a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol, after Bonn requested permission to do so to encourage the use of low-pollution cars, diplomats said. West Germany will still need ministers' final approval for such a plan. Diplomats said this was expected when EC environment ministers meet next on May 21. But the ministers added that the go-ahead for West Germany did not mean there would automatically follow a Community-wide ban on the sale of regular leaded petrol. Bonn intends to keep leaded premium petrol pumps, diplomats said. They added that, of the 97 mln cars in the EC, only 20 mln now ran on regular leaded petrol and these would risk no damage if they switched over to premium leaded petrol. Under EC law, ministers have to give member states special permission if they wish to be exempt from Community competition laws. This would be the case if West Germany were to implement a ban on the sale of leaded regular petrol. Reuter 
FRANCE, BONN REACH ACCORD ON HELICOPTER DESIGN

France and West Germany have reached broad agreement on design specifications for a joint combat helicopter for the 1990s, the French Defence Ministry said. A ministry spokesman said French Defence Minister Andre Giraud and his West German counterpart Manfred Woerner had "agreed in principle" on a common concept for the helicopter during talks in Bonn on Friday. A joint commission will now be formed to work with firms involved in project and present a final report by July, he added. The project, first drafted in 1984, calls for the French company <Aerospatiale> and <Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm> of Munich to develop and build 400 helicopters for the French and West German armed forces. Its development, seen as a test of Europe's ability to collaborate on arms projects, has been dogged by different views on what type of helicopter to build and how to equip it. REUTER 
GERMAN STEEL SUBSIDIES CANNOT CONTINUE - MINISTER

Economics Minister Martin Bangemann said the state could not continue to pour money into West Germany's ailing steel and coal industries because the subsidies endangered other parts of the economy. "The situation is completely absurd from an economic point of view," Bangemann told the newspaper Die Welt in an interview released ahead of publication tomorrow. "We are subsidising the production of mineral coal and steel to an enormous extent and at the same time putting a huge burden on all other branches of industry and making them uncompetitive," he said. Bangemann said the steel and coal industries were no longer capable of being competitive. Continued state subsidies would not save them but would only prolong their lives artifically for a few years, he said. "That is why I have refused to continue subsidising them in the way that we have done in the past," he said. Several steel firms have announced plans to reduce their workforces, citing weak prices and lower exports due to the strength of the mark and tough foreign competition. Bangemann said everything possible would be done to find new jobs for the workers affected by the cuts. REUTER 
DEBT SOLUTION REQUIRES OPEN MARKETS, GERMAN BANKER

The solution of the world's debt crisis requires open markets but a possible resurgence of protectionism is the biggest danger, the president of the Federal Association of German Banks, Wolfgang Roeller, said. Roeller, who is also management board spokesman of Dresdner Bank AG, said in a radio interview it is unlikely Brazil's suspension last month of part of its interest payments would lead to a chain reaction in Latin America. It is important to increase the efficiency of debtor countries to such an extent they earn sufficient currency from exports to repay foreign debt, he said. Brazil had taken a unilateral step, Roeller said, but Brazil had a strong and broad economic base. With the help of appropriate economic programmes there should be a way to bring back financial stability to that country. Roeller said action on the debt situation had to be taken now. It could not be expected debtor countries would be able to repay debts in the short run, even if economic conditions improved. Programmes had to be developed which would strengthen the economic position of these countries, to ensure world economic growth so they are able to sell their products at adequate prices. Roeller said the debt crisis could only be solved in coordination with governments, international organisations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and creditor banks. "This is not a topic which can be solved by creditor banks alone," he said. One aim had to be to raise the credit standing of debtor countries to such a degree they are able to raise funds on international credit markets again. He said a whole set of new ideas had been developed and he was convinced the international banking system would provide more funds, but the problem is not just economic but also political. REUTER 
BANGEMANN DENIES NEWSPAPER INTERVIEW ON SUBSIDIES

The West German Economics Minister today denied giving a newspaper interview which quoted him as saying the state could not continue to pour money into the country's ailing steel and coal industries. Economics Ministry spokesman Dieter Vogel said in a statement Bangemann had contacted him from New Zealand, where he is attending a General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT) ministerial meeting, to deny giving the interview to the conservative daily Die Welt. The paper quoted Bangemann as saying that continued subsidies would endanger other parts of the German economy by making them uncompetitive. Vogel said Bangemann had pledged that everything possible would be done to minimize the effects of reduced coal and steel production on the workforces and regions concerned. Die Welt said the interview with Bangemann had taken place at a meeting of his Free Democratic Party (FDP) in Darmstadt last Friday, adding that it had a tape recording of his comments which it would publish tomorrow. Reuter 
BOLIVIA'S TOP UNION LEADER JOINS MINERS FAST

Bolivia's top union leader today joined a hunger strike by 1,300 state employed miners and workers to press for higher wages he said. Juan Lechin Oquendo, the veteran secretary general of the Bolivian Labour Organization, COB, told reporters: "I am joining the fast to abide with our call for a hunger strike". Lechin, 83, became one of 12 COB leaders to join a hunger strike to protest against the austerity programme of the government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro. The striking leader began his fast as leaders of 9,000 miners employed by the state corporation COMIBOL were due to star negotiations on ways to solve their conflict over pay. About 1,300 miners and workers entered today their fourth day of fast in union offices and Roman Catholic churches to press for a substantial hike in Bolivia's minimum monthly wage, which is 40 bolivianos (about 20 dlrs), COB leader Walter Degadillo said. "I will take part in the miners' negotiations because that does not force me to suspend my fast," Lechin told reporters. The COMIBOL miners' strike entered its fifth day to press for higher wages and more funds for the mining nationalised industry. About 20,000 miners, or two-thirds of the working force, have been laid off through the government's decision to streamline the deficit-ridden state corporation following a collapse in the international tin price. The government, faced with mounting social unrest against its economic policies, has called the miners' strike and fasts part of a campaign aimed at discrediting it during the visit of West German president Richard von Weizsaecker, who began a four-day visit last Friday. "I regret not being able to attend an invitation by president Weizsaecker to a dinner tonight because I am on a hunger strike," Lechin told reporters. "I also have to orga- nise the strike." Weizsaecker is hosting a dinner tonight for Paz Estenssoro and had invited both Lechin and Victor Lopez, the miners' federation top leader. Although lopez has not joined the fast, union sources said its unlikely he would attend the dinner. Reuter 
W. GERMANY, BOLIVIA SIGN TWO COOPERATION PACTS

West Germany and Bolivia signed two cooperation treaties today expected to nearly double the amount of overall aid the south american country receives from its european trade partner, german officials said. Paul Resch, economic attache for the west german embassy, told reuters that Germany had become the biggest european community lender to bolivia. West german aid to Bolivia last year totalled 50 mln marks and officials travelling with President Richard Von Weizsaecker said overall aid to Bolivia is expected to reach 91 mln marks this year. Weizsaecker is expected to announce the figure in a major speech later today at the bolivian congress, the officials said. Reuter 
WEST GERMANY SHARPLY BOOSTS AID TO BOLIVIA

West German aid to Bolivia will rise to 91 mln marks in 1987 from 50 mln in 1986, West German President Richard Von Weizsaecker said. Weizsaecker, speaking to the Bolivian Congress yesterday, said of Latin America's 380 billion dlr foreign debt, "Debtor countries and creditors must cooperate with the banks and international financial organizations to find long-term solutions." Bolivia's debts total 4.4 billion dlrs. "We wish to reach a reasonable agreement with Bolivia so that the country can experience a significant financial respite," Weizsaecker said. The two countries earlier signed two technical and financial cooperation treaties. West German officials said aid last year included 35 mln marks in financial cooperation. Bolivian Foreign Minister Guillermo Bedregal told reporters West Germany would provide 300 mln marks to help fight Bolivia's cocaine trade. The illegal trade in cocaine is West Germany's most worrisome drug problem, West German officials said. REUTER 
GERMAN FEBRUARY IMPORT PRICES FALL

Import prices in West Germany fell 0.7 pct in February from January to stand 15.6 pct below their level in February 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. In January the import price index, base 1980, was unchanged compared with December but 17.8 pct lower against January 1986. February export prices, same base as import prices, were unchanged compared with January and 2.5 pct lower than in February 1986. In January export prices fell 0.3 pct against December to stand 3.0 pct lower than in January 1986. REUTER 
GERMAN FEB SUGAR STOCKS UP IN YEAR, DOWN IN MONTH

West German sugar stocks rose to 2.60 mln tonnes, white value, at the end of February from 2.50 mln at the same time a year earlier, the sugar industry association WVZ said. However, stocks were well below the 2.82 mln held at the end of January. Sugar exports between October 1 and February 28 rose to 449,253 tonnes from 435,727 in the same period of 1985/86. Sales to non-European Community countries rose to 419,541 tonnes from 349,511, while sales within the EC fell sharply to 29,712 tonnes from 86,216. Imports in October-February fell to 59,605 tonnes from 76,044 in the same months a year earlier, the sugar industry association said. Human sugar consumption in October-February rose to 817,856 tonnes from 799,128 in the year-ago period. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK ALLOCATES 6.5 BILLION MARKS IN TENDER

The Bundesbank accepted bids for 6.5 billion marks at today's tender for a 28-day securities repurchase pact at a rate of 3.80 pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks, which bid for a total 8.6 billion marks liquidity, will be credited with the funds allocated tomorrow and must buy back securities pledged on April 22. The allocation was in line with market expectations the Bundesbank would provide more than the 3.4 billion marks draining from this week as an earlier facility expires. Call money fell to 3.60/70 pct ahead of the allocation from 3.75/85 pct yesterday, dealers said. The excess allocation compensates for public funds leaving the system which the Bundesbank added last week via government-owned banks. However major tax payments by banks on behalf of customers drew to a close this week, lessening the need for liquidity. The call money declines surprised some dealers, who speculated it was because the Bundesbank disbursed further government funds today. However, most said this had not occurred. Banks were well stocked with liquidity, having 47.1 billion marks in minimum reserves at the Bundesbank on Friday, up from 49.9 billion on Thursday. Average daily reserves over the first 20 days of the month fell to 52.6 billion from 53.1 billion. For all of March, banks would be required to hold net daily average reserves of 50.7 billion marks, dealers said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN 1986 SUGAR OUTPUT RISES

West German sugar production last year rose 38,000 tonnes to an estimated 3.17 mln tonnes, the Agricultural Ministry said. It said the increase was exclusively due to higher beet sugar content, which went up to 17.93 pct from 17.3 pct in 1985. Last year's beet deliveries totalled 20.22 mln tonnes, down 554,000 tonnes from the previous year. The ministry estimates West Germany's sugar self-sufficiency during the current agricultural year (July/June) unchanged at 137 pct. REUTER 
HOESCH WINS 22 MLN MARK ORDER FROM EAST GERMANY

<Hoesch AG> said its <Hoesch Maschinenfabrik Deutschland AG> subsidiary has won a 22 mln mark East German order for equipment to produce steel rope-reinforced conveyor belts. The equipment, to be installed at the VEB Transportgummi company in the East German town of Bad Blankenburg, will be used to produce belts of up to three meters wide, a company statement said. REUTER 
BABCOCK UNIT WINS ORDER FOR VENEZUELAN POWER PLANT

Deutsche Babcock AG <DBCG.F> said its wholly-owned Borsig GmbH subsidiary has won a 78 mln mark order to build a conventional power station block for Venezuela's state-owned electricity company CADAFE. It said the installation, which can be powered by oil or gas, should go on stream at the end of 1988. REUTER 
WEST GERMANS TO MINT COMMUNITY ANNIVERSARY COIN

The West German Cabinet approved a plan to mint a special 10-mark coin commemorating the 30th anniversary of the European Community this year. The silver-copper alloy coin will be minted in an edition of 8.35 mln, a Finance Ministry statement said. REUTER 
KRUPP TO BUILD SOUTH KOREAN STEEL PLANT

Fried. Krupp GmbH said its Krupp Industrietechnik GmbH subsidiary has won a 130 mln marks joint order with Samsung Shipbuilding and Heavy Industries Co. Ltd of Seoul for a steel works in Pohang, South Korea. It said the order, awarded by the Pohang Iron and Steel Co. Ltd, involves a works due to go on stream in 1989 producing 250,000 tonnes of non-corrosive quality steels annually. The consortium partners will supply the plant, supervise its construction and advise on product processing, with Krupp providing a 100-tonne capacity arc furnace and a converter for steel refining. The West German company will supply ladles, vehicles, electrical and exhaust cooling apparatus and dust filters. It will also fit out the plant's laboratory. Among other things Krupp said it will provide know-how for all production phases and train the Korean workforce. It said Samsung will take care of the Korean part of the engineering and electrical work, the water treatment and other mechanical equipment, according to Krupp basic engineering. Extruded ingots from the plant will be converted to sheet in an existing hot rolling mill. The sheet will be processed in facilities which are to be erected, Krupp said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN JAN COFFEE IMPORTS DOWN ON YEAR-AGO

West German gross green coffee imports in January fell sharply to 38,616 tonnes from 54,576 in January last year, figures from the Federal Statistics Office show. Imports of decaffeinated unroasted coffee were 396 tonnes against nil a year earlier. Reuter 
MARCH PRICES FELL IN GERMAN STATE ON YEAR-AGO

The cost of living in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's most populous state, fell 0.1 pct in the month to mid-March to stand 0.5 pct lower than at the same time a year earlier, the regional statistics office said. Prices had risen 0.3 pct in the month to mid-February but had fallen 0.7 pct year-on-year. The regional figures are considered a good guide to national inflation trends. The Federal Statistics Office is due to publish provisional national figures for March by the end of this month. REUTER 
GERMAN TRADE, CURRENT ACCOUNT DATA DUE TODAY

The Federal Statistics Office will today publish trade and current account figures for February, a spokeswoman said in reply to queries. In January the current account surplus provisionally narrowed to 4.9 billion marks from 8.5 billion in December. The provisional January trade surplus narrowed to 7.2 billion marks from a record 11.6 billion marks the month before. In February 1986 the current account had shown a 6.85 billion mark surplus and the trade account a 6.84 billion surplus. REUTER 
GERMAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN FEBRUARY

West Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional 6.6 billion marks in February from a slightly downwards revised 4.8 billion in January, a spokeswoman for the Federal Statistics Office said. The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4 billion marks from 7.2 billion in January, she added. The Statistics Office had originally put the January current account surplus at 4.9 billion marks. The February trade surplus was well up on the 6.84 billion mark surplus posted in the same month of 1986. But the current account surplus was down slightly from the 6.85 billion surplus recorded in February 1986. A Statistics Office statement said the widening of the February current account surplus compared with January was due to seasonal factors. Neither the trade nor current account figures are seasonally adjusted. February imports, measured in terms of value, totalled 32.11 billion marks, a decline of 10 pct against February 1986 but a rise of 5.5 pct against January. Exports in February, also in value terms, totalled 42.56 billion marks, 0.5 pct less than in February 1986 but up 13 pct compared with January. The Statistics Office said it was not yet able to calculate the real change in exports and imports in February. But for comparison purposes it noted that in January the average value of imports had fallen 15 pct year-on-year while the average value of exports had declined by only 4.4 pct. Within the current account, the services account had 300 mln marks deficit, supplementary trade items a 200 mln mark surplus while transfer payments posted a 3.7 billion mark deficit. Taking the first two months of 1987 together, imports in value terms fell 14 pct to 62.6 billion marks compared with a year earlier. The value of exports totalled 80.2 billion marks, a decline of 7.4 pct against the same months of 1986. The resulting trade surplus of 17.6 billion marks for January/February compares with a cumulative surplus of 14.1 billion marks in the year-ago period. The cumulative current account surplus for January and February 1987 totalled 11.3 billion marks against 11.4 billion marks a year earlier, the Statistics Office said. Bank economists said the rise in the February trade surplus reflected an improvement in the terms of trade as well as seasonal factors. The Federal Statistics Office said earlier this week that February import prices fell 0.7 pct against January while export prices were unchanged. "The rise in the nominal figures masks a lower export trend that is not expected to change for several months at least," said an economist. He said the nominal trade surplus for 1987 as a whole is likely to fall only slightly from the record 112.2 billion marks in 1986 but other economists said the surplus could fall to around 80 billion marks. An economist at the Bank fuer Gemeinwirtschaft (BfG) in Frankfurt said a two-month comparison of trade figures gave a more accurate picture of West Germany's trade position. He noted the 17.6 billion mark surplus for January and February together was lower than the 21.6 billion mark surplus posted in November and December. "The trend is clearly lower," he said. This economist, who declined to be named, said the February rise was also partly explained by special factors in January, when there had been a number of public holidays as well as extremely cold weather, both of which hindered trade. REUTER 
NO PESSIMISM FOR GERMAN EXPORTERS, MINISTRY

Firms need not be pessimistic about export prospects even though foreign markets have become more difficult because of the mark's strength the Economics Ministry said. The ministry's parliamentary state secretary Ludolf Georg von Wartenberg, told a business conference German exports could start rising again in real terms during 1987, reversing the lower export trend which emerged in mid-1986. But even if the turnaround did not occur, there would be no need to worry about the economy as long as the weakness of exports did not affect currently good domestic demand. Von Wartenberg said consumer demand remained quite good but noted there had been a cooling in the investment climate. "This is certainly a reason for heightened watchfulness but not for stimulative steps," he said. The best way for Bonn to help its exporters is to work actively to promote free world trade, he added. Von Wartenberg said the economy still had good export opportunities. Price alone was not the only factor in international competitiveness, he said, adding German firms have a reputation for high quality standards, prompt delivery times and good service. Von Wartenberg said the government was in a difficult position on its trade figures. It faced international pressure to reduce its trade surplus, but West Germans were worried about the effect of the mark's strength on the country's exporters. Reports about the trade surplus, especially overseas, tended to concentrate on nominal trade figures, which rose to a record 112.2 billion marks in 1986, he said. But this rise was due entirely to the lower value of imports caused by the decline of both the dollar and oil prices. German exports have in fact been falling in real terms for sometime, he said. REUTER 
GERMAN NET CURRENCY RESERVES RISE

West German net currency reserves rose by 300 mln marks in the third week of March to 82.0 billion, following a fall of 5.4 billion marks in the previous week, the Bundesbank said. Non-currency reserves were unchanged at about 2.5 billion marks, bringing net monetary reserves to 84.5 billion. REUTER 
GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD RISING IN 2ND HALF 1987

The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said. Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale's trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins. "A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges," Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs. Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs. Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said. Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver. Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG's foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year. The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. REUTER 
 German March cost of living 0.2 pct below year ago (Feb 0.5 pct below) - official



GERMAN COST OF LIVING FALLS IN MARCH ON YEAR-AGO

The cost of living in West Germany was provisionally unchanged in March compared with February but fell 0.2 pct against March 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. In February the cost of living rose 0.1 pct from January but fell 0.5 pct compared with February 1986. The office said final figures for March will be released in about 10 days. REUTER 
GERMAN ANALYSTS SEE GOLD FIRMING LATER THIS YEAR

The price of gold bullion is likely to rise in the second half of the year on increased private investor demand, West German analysts said. Gold could rise as high as 500 dlrs per ounce later this year, said Peter Witte, director of Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale's trading division, after a presentation by the U.S. Mint to promote its gold and silver Eagle series coins. "A lot will depend on oil prices and developments on stock exchanges," Witte said, adding he saw gold positioned for further rises once it breaks out above 450 dlrs. Gold was fixed this morning in London at 411.30 dlrs. Despite current strong interest in gold mine stocks, many investors still want to buy physical gold, Witte said. Interest in gold mine stocks may also wane if stock exchange rallies under way in many countries start to waver. Hermann Strohmeyer, vice president of Commerzbank AG's foreign exchange trading and treasury department, said gold is poised to rise to 460 to 470 dlrs an ounce in the second half of this year. The price is unlikely to fall much below 380 or 390 dlrs an ounce, and probably will continue in a range between 380 and 430 dlrs in the first half of this year, he said. Reuter 
GERMAN RETAILERS EXPECT GOOD 1987

West German retailers expect another good year in 1987 even though they will not be able to repeat the sharp increase in turnover they enjoyed in 1986, the General Association of the German Retail Trade (HDE) said. HDE President Wolfgang Hinrichs said retailers would be satisfied with a real turnover increase of between 2.5 pct to three pct in 1987 after last year's steep 3.7 pct rise. Hinrichs said the 1986 turnover increase had brought the first hesitant signs of improvement in earnings in the West German retail sector. REUTER 
GERMAN STOCKS SYSTEM SHOULD DEVELOP ALONGSIDE CITY

The German auction system of shares trading, retaining the business floor, can develop in parallel to off-floor computer trading introduced in London in the "Big Bang," Frankfurt stock exchange president Michael Hauck said. Hauck told a conference that it was unclear if the Frankfurt floor would become superfluous. The Frankfurt exchange did 55 pct of all German securities trading and was investing 86 mln marks in renovating its building. A screen-delivered in-house quotation system would soon be in place too. The nature of the auction system limited how far trading hours could be extended from the present two-hour session. Other practical problems inhibited the German ability to follow London's moves. Official brokers, who set the prices, were under the control of the Finance Ministry. This meant transfer of securities control to an independent body, if desired, would need legislative changes, Hauck said. "Shorting" stocks in Germany was also prohibited by the rules for pension and insurance funds. They could thus not be lent out for the kind of speculative positions taken by London market makers. But Hauck said the system in London could be criticised for being too distant from those it should serve. REUTER 
TOP QUALITIES SOUGHT ON HAMBURG COFFEE MARKET

The green coffee market saw some demand for high quality coffees in the past week, but business was described as generally unsatisfactory, trade sources said. Especially sought were spot East African and Ethiopian and some Brazils, they said, adding that some high grade robustas also met some demand. Sporadic business was noted in the second hand which offered Kenya coffee for May/June shipment up to 25 dlrs below origin levels. Roasters are said to be well covered and are not expected to enter the market for larger purchases in the near term. REUTER 
HAPAG ORDERS NEW CONTAINER SHIP FROM CHINA

<Hapag Lloyd AG> said it ordered a new container vessel from China for its Australia service. The order was given to the <Hudong shipyards> in Shanghai after lengthy negotiations with West German shipbuilders, the company said in a statement. The Chinese firm offered to build the vessel at over 30 mln marks less than West German yards, despite government subsidies which Bonn pays its ailing shipbuilding industry, Hapag said. A company spokesman would not comment on the total order value but said the new vessel would replace the 33,333 dwt Sydney Express in 1989 and would carry 2,700 container units. REUTER 
DUTCH MINISTER ATTACKS W. GERMAN FARM POSITION

Dutch Agriculture Minister Gerrit Braks said today the Netherlands deeply regretted West German opposition to radical reforms aimed at halting unwanted European Community (EC) food production. Braks told journalists he had rounded on his West German counter-part Ignaz Kiechle and accused Bonn of "lacking the courage to tell farmers their methods were outdated" during a private meeting of Christian Democrat politicians on Sunday. Braks said he told Kiechle: "You (Bonn) have had years to put your house in order and failed to do so." His comments came shortly before EC ministers failed to reach agreement at two days of talks on prices to be paid to EC farmers from the start of the new crop year on April 1. The ministers agreed to roll over the present year for two months and resume negotiations in Luxembourg next month. The proposals from the EC's Brussels headquarters would slash guaranteed prices paid to producers and seek to peg farm spending at its current two-thirds share of a total budget of 36.2 billion European Currency Units (41 billion dlrs). The attack from Braks comes at a time when relations between the EC's Executive Commission, which has proposed the reform measures, and Bonn are at an all-time low. The entire 17-man Commission is today visiting Bonn, once the most enthusiastic EC member, in an attempt to overcome differences largely resulting from bids to rein in out of control agricultural expenditure. Kiechle, who yesterday denounced as totally unacceptable new limits on producers' rights to sell unlimited amounts of excess products into Community warehouses, warned the meeting the measures lead to political instability in his country. He said they did not even form the basis of negotiation and stressed they were opposed by all political parties in the country. The issue of farm reform has been pushed to the top of the Community's agenda by the group's protracted financial crises and by growing international tension over farm surpluses and subsidies. Reuter 
GERMAN 2.2 PCT GROWTH AVERAGE SEEN TO 1991

The economy will grow by an average rate of 2.2 pct a year in real terms between now and the end of 1991, Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale (WestLB) said in an annual report. A year ago WestLB had forecast average growth of just under three pct for 1986-1990. The 1987 report said gross national product would only expand a real 1.7 pct this year -- below previous expectations -- because of weaker exports. Growth rates will pick up later, however, producing a 2.2 pct increase on average for the five-year period. MORE 
KONTROLLBANK ISSUES 150 MLN MARK PRIVATE EUROBOND

Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG is raising 150 mln marks through a private placement for five years with a 5-1/2 pct coupon and priced at 100-1/4 pct, lead manager Deutsche Girozentrale - Deutsche Kommunalbank said. The bond, guaranteed by Austria, will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. No fees were disclosed. Investors pay for the bond on May 21. The bond pays yearly interest on that day, and expires on that day in 1992. The bond is callable for tax reasons only, with a premium of one pct on May 21, 1988 and 1989, with a premium of 1/2 pct on May 21, 1990, and at par on May 21, 1991. REUTER 
EAST ASIATIC ISSUES 150 MLN MARK EUROBOND

The East Asiatic Company Ltd A/S is raising 150 mln marks through a 5-1/2 pct bullet eurobond priced at 100-1/4, lead manager Commerzbank AG said. Investors will pay for the bond on May 6, and the bond pays annual interest on the same day. The bond matures on May 6, 1992. The bond will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. Fees total two pct, with 1-1/4 points for selling and 3/4 for management and underwriting combined. Listing will be in Frankfurt. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TOMORROW

The Bundesbank will not hold a press conference after its regular fortnightly council meeting tomorrow, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. Bundesbank vice-president Helmut Schlesinger will chair the meeting, as president Karl Otto Poehl has a private engagement. The next meeting is scheduled for April 16. REUTER 
GERMAN BOURSE TURNOVER FOR FIRST QUARTER DETAILED

Share and bond turnover on all eight West German bourses in the first 1987 quarter was valued at 483.4 billion marks, according to the new method of calculating turnover, the Association of German bourses said in a statement. The statement, however, did not give figures on the total number of share and bond units transacted. While shares posted a turnover worth 187.9 billion marks, bond turnover was 295.4 billion marks. No comparative figures were available because of the new method of calculation. In March, share and bond turnover rose 28 pct to 181.1 billion marks from the previous month, reversing the sharp turnover drop in February. Average daily turnover rose to 8.2 billion marks against 7.0 billion in February. Bond turnover jumped 33 pct to 113.3 billion marks in March, giving an average transaction value of 455,000 marks each on the total 249,000 transactions. More than 90 pct of the turnover was in public authority bonds. Share turnover rose 22 pct to 67.8 billion marks. With 1.5 mln deals, share transactions averaged 45,000 marks each. German shares accounted for Nearly 80 pct of share turnover. Foreign shares took up over eight pct and domestic and foreign options, about 12 pct. Deutsche Bank <DBKG.F> was the most traded share in March, with 4.7 billion marks worth changing hands. Siemens <SIEG.F> was next with 4.5 billion marks, Bayer <BAYG.F> 4.0 billion, Volkswagen <VOWG.F> 3.4 billion, Daimler-Benz <DAIG.F> 3.4 billion, Veba <VEBG.F> 2.4 billion, Dresdner Bank <DRSD.F> 2.0 billion, Hoechst <HFAG.F> 2.0 billion, BASF <BASF.F> 1.8 billion and AEG AG <AEGG.F> 1.5 billion. Trading in these 10 shares accounted for 44 pct of total share turnover. REUTER 
 German February industrial output rises 3.2 pct (January fall 3.4 pct) - official



GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German industrial production, seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in February after a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, the Economics Ministry said. The ministry had originally estimated that industrial production fell 3.0 pct in January. The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by just under one percentage point next month when the March figure is released, a ministry statement said. The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at a provisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and 104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the January and December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively. In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7, producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct. The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct increase in construction output compared with January, when production in many industrial sectors was depressed by unusually severe winter weather. Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise in production in February compared with January. But energy sector output fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct. The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to be a better guide to trends, said output in January and February together fell around two pct against November and December. The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct in January/February against November/December due to the cold January weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct and mining output 10 pct. Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct in January/February compared with November/December. Within this sector, the output of both basic products and of food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production of capital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods was unchanged. Compared with the same months of 1986, industrial production in January and February 1987 fell 1-1/2 pct, the ministry said. Manufacturing industry output fell one pct, with output of basic products down three pct, capital goods down one pct and food, tobacco and alcohol production 1-1/2 pct lower. Makers of consumer goods posted a 1-1/2 pct year-on-year rise in the two-month period. In other industrial sectors, mining production fell four pct and construction output 4-1/2 pct. The energy sector saw a slight 1/2 pct rise, the ministry added. REUTER 
SOVIET MINISTER IN GERMAN JOINT VENTURE TALKS

Soviet deputy prime minister Alexei Antonov begins two days of economic talks in Bonn that will include discussions on Soviet-West German joint ventures. Antonov and West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann are heading their respective delegations to the joint commission on economic, scientific and technical cooperation. "The main point of the round will be Soviet economic reforms, new forms of economic cooperation, joint ventures, and cooperation in construction," government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said. REUTER 
GERMAN MARCH COST OF LIVING DATA CONFIRMED

The cost of living was unchanged in March compared with February but stood 0.2 pct lower than in the same month in 1986, the Federal Statistics Office said. This confirms provisional figures released at the end of last month. In February the cost of living in West Germany rose 0.1 pct from January to stand 0.5 pct lower than in February 1986. REUTER 
SEASONAL STABILISATION SEEN FOR COFFEE PRICES

The onset of cooler weather in Brazil during the southern hemisphere winter is expected to have a stabilising effect on a weak coffee market, West German trade sources said. "The annual fear of frost in Brazil will probably grip the market sometime this month until June or early July," one trader said. The trade believes the International Coffee Organization (ICO) is unlikely to tackle the re-introduction of quotas before its September meeting and until then the market will not see any unexpected sharp moves in either direction. REUTER 
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY

West German industrial production, seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in February after a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, the Economics Ministry said. The ministry had originally estimated that industrial production fell 3.0 pct in January. The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by just under one percentage point next month when the March figure is released, a ministry statement said. The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at a provisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and 104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the January and December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively. In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7, producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct. The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct increase in construction output compared with January, when production in many industrial sectors was depressed by unusually severe winter weather. Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise in production in February compared with January. But energy sector output fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct. The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to be a better guide to trends, said output in January and February together fell around two pct against November and December. The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct in January/February against November/December due to the cold January weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct and mining output 10 pct. Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct in January/February compared with November/December. Within this sector, the output of both basic products and of food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production of capital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods was unchanged. Reuter 
IRELAND ISSUES 300 MLN MARK EUROBOND

Ireland is raising 300 mln marks through a 10-year eurobond with a 6-1/2 pct coupon priced at 100-1/2, lead manager Commerzbank AG said. The bond, with a yield at issue of 6.43 pct, will pay annual interest on April 29. Listing is in Frankfurt, the bank said. Investors will pay for the bond on April 29, and the bond matures on the same day in 1997. The bond will be issued in denominations of 1,000 and 10,000 marks. Fees total 2-1/2 pct, with 1-1/2 points for selling and 1/2 each for management and underwriting. REUTER 
GERMAN MARCH UNADJUSTED JOBLESS FALLS

West German unemployment, unadjusted for seasonal factors, fell to 2.41 mln in March from 2.49 mln in February, the Federal Labour Office said. The total represents 9.6 pct of the workforce compared with 10.0 pct in February. The seasonally adjusted jobless total rose, however, in March to 2.23 mln from 2.18 mln in February, it added. In March last year the unadjusted unemployment total stood at 2.45 mln and represented 9.8 pct of the workforce. Seasonally adjusted unemployment was 2.29 mln. The Federal Labour Office said the number of workers on short time rose by 80,629 to 462,802 and the number of vacancies increased by 15,263 to 180,047. Labour Office President Heinrich Franke, announcing the figures, said the hesitant decline in the unadjusted jobless total reflected continuing bad weather, slack activity in the capital goods sector and structural changes in the coal and steel industry. In a separate statement, the Federal Statistics Office said the rise in the overall number of people in employment had slowed in February. The Office said that, according to estimates for February, 25.7 mln people were in work, a rise of around 240,000 or 0.9 pct compared with the same month in 1986. It noted that in January the year-on-year rise was 250,000 or 1.0 pct and the number in work stood at 25.78 mln. The decline in February compared with January reflected seasonal factors, it added. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG CALLS FOR NEW BRAZIL TALKS WITH BANKS

Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said he will advise Brazil to take up discussions with its commercial bank creditors when he is in Washington for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) meeting next week. He told a news conference ahead of the IMF talks that discussions about developing country debt problems would play an important role on the agenda in Washington. Stoltenberg noted that Brazil had agreed in January to work together with the banks but said this pledge had not yet been fulfilled. After Brazil imposed a moratorium on interest payments on 68 billion dlrs worth of debt in February, Brazilian Finance Minister Dilson Funaro sought to involve foreign governments in rescheduling talks with banks. But British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson rebuffed Funaro's bid and said commercial bank loans were a matter for banks and not governments. West German bankers also said then that Brazil should seek an understanding with the IMF. Stoltenberg said in Bonn today that he had already told Funaro that the unilateral moratorium was a mistake. Stoltenberg said that despite progress in some areas, the debt problems of a whole range of countries had recently become more difficult. He said flows from commercial banks had decreased markedly and that the refusal of some highly indebted countries to fulfil their commitments to private creditors or with the IMF was one reason for this. He also said that when debtor countries came up with good, confidence-inspiring policies, commercial banks should react with more flexibility in interest structures, maturities and rescheduling. Many debtor countries had realised that it was not possible to mobilise capital flows, and especially direct investments, without such policies, Stoltenberg said. REUTER 
DATA COORDINATION TO PLAY ROLE AT IMF, STOLTENBERG

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said international coordination of economic and financial policies as well as of economic indicators will be discussed at next week's meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington. Stoltenberg told a news conference it had been decided at last year's Tokyo summit of seven leading industrialised nations that the possibility of such coordination would be reviewed. Progress made by senior government officials in this sphere would be discussed at the IMF meeting and results would later be presented at this year's economic summit in Venice. REUTER 
DATA COORDINATION TO BE DISCUSSEED AT IMF

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said international coordination of economic and financial policies as well as of economic indicators will be discussed at next week's meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington. Stoltenberg told a news conference it had been decided at last year's Tokyo summit of seven leading industrialised nations that the possibility of such coordination would be reviewed. Progress made by senior government officials in this sphere would be discussed at the IMF meeting and results would later be presented at this year's economic summit in Venice. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK GROSS RESERVES RISE AT MARCH CLOSE

The Bundesbank's gross currency reserves rose 300 mln marks in the last week of March to 104.9 billion marks, the Bundesbank said in a statement. At the same time its foreign liabilities rose 100 mln to 22.8 billion, producing a rise in net reserves of 200 mln to 82.2 billion on March 31. The Bundesbank provided banks with liquidity in the fourth March week by disbursing funds in the money market via government-owned banks. Banks took up the Bundesbank's standing offer of treasury bills to place excess liquidity. Banks received more liquidity through routine month-end payments by public authorities as well as expansionary market factors than was lost through the 2.3 billion mark rise in cash in circulation to 122.3 billion, the Bundesbank said. But banks had to draw heavily on the Lombard emergency financing facility due to month-end tightness, borrowing 5.3 billion marks. Overall, banks' holdings at the Bundesbank rose 10.2 billion marks to 58.5 billion at the end of the month, averaging 50.9 billion in the whole of March. The minimum reserve requirement for March, before deduction of banks' cash holdings, was set at 61 billion marks. Public authorities' net holdings at the Bundesbank fell to 2.2 billion marks in the last March week from 4.4 billion the week before. The federal states' holdings fell 2.6 billion to 2.4 billion. The federal government's holdings rose 700 mln marks to 5.1 billion. REUTER 
ECONOMIC SPOTLIGHT - EFTA FEARS EC MARKET PLANS

The European Community wants to eliminate all obstacles to free movement of goods, services and people by 1992, a laudable goal that has sent shivers down the spines of its closest trading neighbours. Europe's outsiders -- the six members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), and other small states -- fear the growing power of the 12 EC member countries, a market of 320 mln people, one and a half times as big as the whole U.S. And as the Community celebrates its 30th anniversary, in non-EC countries from Ankara to Oslo, an attitude is emerging which says, "If you can't beat them, join them." In June 1985, the Community adopted a plan to create an "internal market" without restrictions, which included new goals on everything from tourism to the rules of bank accounting. The plan is so extensive that even the EFTA countries -- Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Norway, Finland and Iceland -- with decades of close trade ties, find it hard to adopt a joint position. Last month Turkey formally requested EC membership, receiving a polite reply from Brussels that the time was not ripe. In Austria, where its 1955 charter of neutrality forbids joining political alliances, the government is looking for ways to become a "de facto" EC member. And in Norway, where membership was rejected in a 1972 referendum, government officials are wondering whether the political climate has changed. But nowhere has the debate been more existential than in Switzerland, which has resisted all alliances for 700 years. The Swiss are a microcosm of Europe, living geographically in the very heart of Europe and speaking the languages of the three big economies -- Germany, France and Italy. Swiss neutrality, which has kept the country out of the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund, would seem to preclude membership in the Community, given the EC's loose link with the Western defence alliance NATO. But an opinion poll late last year, held in the French-speaking part of the country, showed a majority favoured joining the Community. Since then, government officials have stressed that, while membership was impossible, Switzerland should do everything possible not to be locked out when the trade barriers inside the EC come down. State secretary for foreign trade Franz Blankart, said it is inconceivable the whole Swiss nation -- including the more conservative German-speaking majority -- would vote for membership. But Switzerland must be more than just a "satellite," he said, now that the enlarged Community is extending itself into areas omitted by the founding Treaty of Rome. These areas, including pharmaceutical research and technological development, are the key to the economic future of Switzerland and the Community alike, he adds. "We cannot permit ourselves the luxury of passively following the Community's new dynamic of integration," he says. The Swiss economy ministry has drawn up a detailed analysis of the EC White Paper on the internal market, outlining the Swiss response to each point. While some refer to a collective EFTA stance, officials admit that on many issues Switzerland may have act alone. The new EC plans on transport, for example, would have a severe impact on Switzerland and Austria, whose roads carry most of the traffic between Italy and its EC partners. But rules such as the volume of petrol buses are allowed to carry across a border have much less importance to Sweden or Finland. Switzerland wants to work out ways to help people crossing its borders with West Germany, France and Italy. But it is afraid the liberal border controls Denmark, an EC member, has with the non-EC Nordic countries might pose a threat to security. And pin the fields of banking and insurance -- the very lifeblood of Switzerland's service sector -- Swiss interests could prove directly opposite to its EFTA partners with their pppppppnarrow and tightly protected financial markets. The biggest danger ahead, EFTA members have said, would be that their divided interests might leave the EC free to set whatever guidelines and standards it wanted and force them on other European states that wanted to trade. REUTER 
VW PLANS MAJOR NEW PLANT IN CHINA

Volkswagen AG <VOWG.F>, VW, plans to construct a major new car plant in China, a company spokesman said. However, he added that discussions with China about the plant were still at an early stage. It would have an annual capacity of up to 300,000 vehicles but would not be built until the 1990's at the earliest. VW already has a large joint venture with the Chinese authorities under which it produces the Santana model in Shanghai. The spokesman said the Shanghai plant should have an annual capacity of 30,000 cars by the end of next year. So far 15,000 Santanas have been produced since output began in 1985. The VW spokesman said no decision had yet been made about the type of car which could be built at the new plant. However, company officials have said VW plans to bring out a cheaper car than the Santana for the Chinese market and which will be aimed at private owners. The Santana is generally used by government officials and visiting foreigners or as taxis for tourists. No details were given about the extent of investment in the new plant and it was not clear where it would be built. Reuter 
INSTITUTE SEES W.GERMAN OUTPUT FALL IN 1987

Production in the manufactured goods industry has been falling since mid-1986 and will decline by between one and two pct this year after a 2.5 pct increase in 1986, the Ifo economic institute said. An Ifo report said recessionary influences were affecting the engineering industry particularly. It saw a decline of two to three pct in this sector after a 5.2 pct rise in 1986. Orders, especially from abroad, were also falling sharply for capital goods in the electronics sector, it added. Ifo also predicted stagnation in the automobile industry in 1987 after a particularly successful 1986 when production rose 5.1 pct. Chemical industry production, which fell by 0.9 pct last year, was likely to stagnate or decline by one pct in 1987. This sector suffered from slack demand from abroad and from low domestic consumption. REUTER 
CENTRE-RIGHT WIN GERMANY'S HESSE STATE POLL

West Germany's Christian Democrats (CDU) and their liberal Free Democrat Party (FDP) allies today won control of the central state of Hesse in state elections, toppling the Social Democrats (SPD) who had governed the state for over 40 years. The CDU/FDP coalition will have a two-seat majority over the SPD and their Greens party allies in the new state parliament. Earlier predictions forecast a hung parliament. The poll was the first major test of public opinion since national elections last January returned Chancellor Helmut Kohl's CDU-dominated coalition to power in Bonn. Political commentators said the result was a debacle for the SPD, which has been split by disagreements over the party's future direction. It was also a rebuff for a unique coalition the SPD had formed in Hesse with the anti-nuclear Greens movement, which left-wing Social Democrats said could provide a model for a similar alliance at federal level. Bonn Environment Minister Walter Wallmann, the CDU's victorious candidate for the state premiership, told reporters "Many traditional SPD voters voted for us because they did not want an SPD that was under the influence of the Greens." REUTER 
 German February capital account deficit 7.53 billion marks vs Jan 11.91 billion surplus - Bundesbank



GERMAN CAPITAL ACCOUNT IN DEFICIT IN FEBRUARY

West Germany recorded a net outflow of 7.53 billion marks on the February capital account, combining long and short term capital flows, compared with a net inflow of 11.91 billion marks in January, the Bundesbank said. This compared with a net outflow of 3.51 billion marks in February 1986, the Bundesbank said. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN 1986 OIL MEALS, CAKES USE UP

West German consumption of oilmeals and oil cakes last year rose by 2.4 pct to 6.3 mln tonnes, the agriculture ministry said. It said in a statement the increase was exclusively due to sharply higher use of rape products, which went up by 8.9 pct to 1.08 mln tonnes. Use of soy products dropped 7.2 pct to 2.89 mln tonnes, it added. REUTER 
PALM OIL OUTPUT SEEN DROPPING SHARPLY - OIL WORLD

Malaysian and Indonesian palm oil production is likely to drop sharply this year, due to lower yields, the Hamburg-based newsletter Oil World said. The publication expects total Malaysian output during Jan/Sept 1987 to decline by eight pct to 3.05 mln tonnes. For East Malaysia, it put production during the period at 297,000 tonnes after 312,000 a year earlier and for West Malaysia 2.75 mln compared with just over 3.0 mln during Jan/Sept 1986. It said new plantings had slowed markedly in both countries, but the effects of this will not be felt until 1988-90. Above normal yields during recent years resulted in trees reacting to the stress by changing the sex ratio to more male inflorescences and/or aborting more female, Oil World said. Yields per hectare are also likely to be adversely affected this year by insufficient rain up to 25 months ago. This could especially affect trees in West Malaysia during April/June, while in East Malaysia the impact will be in February/April and July/Dec, and in Indonesia July/Sept. Last year's cut in fertilizer use will hit this year's yields and bigger effects are expected within the next three years, Oil World said without elaborating. Opening stocks in West Malaysia at the start of this year were put at only 565,000 tonnes compared with 914,000 in January 1986, Oil World said. West Malaysian net exports are therefore expected to drop 500,000 tonnes to 2.54 mln during Jan/Sept, while those of East Malaysia are likely to decline by 10 pct to 280,000 tonnes. Indonesian palm oil production is forecast to fall about eight pct during Jan/May, but to rise from June on. Overall Indonesian output during Jan/Sept is forecast to rise three pct to 933,000 tonnes. Indonesian stocks as of April 1, however, are put at only 65,000 tonnes compared with 160,000 a year ago. Indonesian export commitments and domestic requirements are both running at high levels, Oil World said, and it expects the country's imports to reach a record 110,000 tonnes during Jan/Sept. The bulk of this will arrive during Feb/May, ahead of the April elections and the religious Ramadan festival throughout May, it said. Indonesian net exports, therefore, may fall by 29 pct to 350,000 tonnes, Oil World said. The possibility that recent Indonesian palm oil purchases will not actually enter the country but be transshipped to other countries to fulfill Indonesia's export orders cannot be ruled out, it said. REUTER 
GERMAN LONG-TERM CAPITAL INFLOW SLUMPS IN FEBRUARY

The inflow of long-term capital into West Germany slumped to 606 mln marks in February from January's record 11.91 billion, with foreign purchases of German bonds and shares declining sharply, the Bundesbank said. While foreigners bought only four billion marks worth of German bonds in February after 13 billion in January, they sold a net 500 mln marks in shares and promissory notes of public authorities after sales worth 300 mln in January. With German investors' purchases of foreign securities steady around 1.3 billion marks, only 2.2 billion marks were imported through securities transactions, after 11.2 billion. Direct investment abroad led to a capital outflow of 1.60 billion marks in February after 2.83 billion in January. There was a deficit of 8.14 billion marks in the short-term capital account after a surplus of 194 mln in January. Banks alone exported some 8.6 billion marks in funds while domestic companies increased their short-term financial assets abroad by 700 mln. But public authorities received some one billion marks from abroad, the Bundesbank said in a statement. Combining long and short term capital outflows, West Germany recorded a net outflow of 7.53 billion marks in February against a net inflow of 11.91 billion in January. The Bundesbank confirmed the German trade surplus widened to 10.45 billion marks in February from January's 7.20 billion. Taking the two months together the seasonally adjusted surplus was slightly below the figure for the previous two. In terms of current as well as constant prices, the narrowing of the surplus was progressing, the bank said. Germany's current account surplus widened to 6.63 billion marks in February from 4.79 billion in January, but was down on the 7.26 billion figure for February 1986. Seasonally adjusted, the February current account surplus narrowed against January. While exports in February fell a half pct against the same month last year, imports fell 10-1/2 pct largely due to the drop in prices. Exports grew three pct in volume and imports two pct. In the balance of services, a fall in net investment income led to a 300 mln mark deficit in February after a 300 mln mark surplus in January. The deficit in transfer payments widened to 3.70 billion marks from 2.69 billion, largely due to a sharp jump to 2.3 billion marks from 200 mln in payments to the European Community budget. REUTER 
GERMAN INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT SEEN STAGNATING

The number of workers employed in the West German industrial sector stagnated in the last quarter of 1986 as a 50,000 increase in overall employment benefited only the services branch, the DIW economic institute said. A DIW report added the general downturn in the economy since last Autumn had had a negative effect on the willingness of firms to take on workers. It referred to a marked downturn in the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector. New orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostly fallen or stagnated in recent months, but data for February finally showed a reversal of the trend, with a 1.9 pct rise. REUTER 
OECD URGES GERMANY TO STEP UP AID

West Germany should take steps to increase its official development assistance, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said. A report by the organisation's Development Assistance Committee (DAC) said German aid levels had shown only a moderate increase in real terms in recent years, adding that there was a risk that growth over the next few years might slow further. German aid, estimated at around four billion dlrs in 1986, represents 0.46 pct of the country's GNP. This is above the DAC's average of 0.36 pct, but might decline if corrective measures were not taken, the report said. REUTER 
EC COMMISSION DETAILS SUGAR TENDER

The EC Commission confirmed it granted export licences for 118,350 tonnes of current series white sugar at a maximum export rebate of 46.496 European Currency Units (ECUs) per 100 kilos. Out of this, traders in France received 34,500 tonnes, in the U.K. 37,800, in West-Germany 20,000, in Belgium 18,500, in Spain 5,800 and in Denmark 1,750 tonnes. REUTER 
GERMAN BANKERS' REMARKS REVIVE TALK OF RATE CUT

Remarks by two leading central bankers sparked renewed speculation in financial markets that a cut in the West German three pct discount rate may be under discussion, currency dealers said. Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler said in a speech that monetary growth resulting from speculative capital inflows required cuts in interest rates. Separately, West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss told journalists that the discount rate could fall below its lowest ever point of 2.75 pct. He made clear that he was not making a forecast on interest rates, however. Currency dealers here and in the Far East said the dollar gained slight background support from the speculation. But German dealers noted that the Bundesbank kept the 3.80 pct rate unchanged at which it offered liquidity to the money market this week, dashing some expectations that it may either offer lower fixed rate money or offer a reduced minimum rate and let the strength of banks' demands set the allocation rate. It allocated 6.1 billion marks in new liquidity, much less than the 14.9 billion leaving the market as a prior pact expired. This further weakened sentiment the Bundesbank could move to a more accommodative monetary stance, dealers said. Koehler said in a speech in Surrey, England, speculative capital inflows may cause monetary growth, regardless of whether central banks intervened or exchange rates fell. "In other words, the monetary policy measures required are different from -- and sometimes diametrically opposed to -- those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result of mounting economic activity." Though Koehler was known to be the most liberal of the generally monetarist Bundesbank board, his comments marked the first time cuts in rates had been concretely suggested as a counterpoint to overly strong monetary growth, dealers said. REUTER^M 
WEST GERMAN BEET PLANTINGS DELAYED THREE WEEKS

Unseasonal cold weather has delayed sugar beet plantings in West Germany by up to three weeks, the agriculture ministry said. A ministry spokesman said in some central areas, especially in the Rhineland, farmers have taken advantage of warmer weather and started plantings in the past two days. West German planting intentions this year are put at 381,000 hectares, down from 390,500 ha last year, he said, adding that the 1980/1985 average was 405,000 ha. REUTER 
WEST GERMANY'S THESING ISSUES 10 MLN SFR BOND

<Thesing-Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH> of Coesfeld, West Germany, is issuing a 10 mln Swiss franc eight year bond with an indicated 6-3/8 pct coupon and par issue price, joint lead managers Fintrelex SA and E.Gutzwiller und Cie, Banquiers said. Subscription is from May 7 until May 13. The issue is guaranteed by Schallplattentruhe A. Thesing GmbH und Co Kommanditgesellschaft, Martin Thesing Handelsgesellschaft. REUTER 
W.GERMAN COCOA GRIND UP 2.9 PCT IN FIRST QUARTER

The West German cocoa grind rose 2.9 pct to 55,190 tonnes in the first quarter of 1987 from 53,643 tonnes in the same quarter of of 1986, the Bonn-based Confectionery Industry Association said in a statement. REUTER TAW 
GERMAN CAPITAL MARKET LIBERALIZATION STALLS

West Germany's capital market liberalization program has stalled and bankers are worried it may take years for further reforms to be completed. Liberalization got underway in May 1985 when foreign banks received Bundesbank permission to lead-manage mark eurobonds. Further moves included introduction of mark-denominated certificates of deposit last year. But other changes, including revisions in the domestic options market and introduction of futures contracts, need lengthy statutory changes and this may take years, bankers and dealers say. Deutsche Bank AG co-chairman F. Wilhelm Christians called last week for an enlargement of current capital market instruments to include instruments already standard abroad. He said these are needed especially when prices fall, citing declines in West German share prices in the first two months of this year when stock indices fell about 20 pct. Others are more blunt. Securities dealers say the lack of viable hedging instruments for shares and bonds makes trading in domestic markets too risky. "We need a stock index futures contract, and a futures contract for recent government bonds," one dealer said. West Germany now has options contracts on about five pct of shares and bonds traded on exchanges here, covering only about 30 pct of the average traded volume, stock market sources said. Options can only be written on the original 14 bonds selected when bond options were introduced last April. The most recent bond on the list was issued in 1985. There are no futures exchanges in West Germany. German banks may participate in futures exchanges through branches abroad but these are at least outwardly subject to stringent West German rules requiring that every contract be secured on a one-by-one basis with a separate hedge, to prevent speculation. Another problem is a lack of liquidity in the existing markets, owing to lack of private investor participation. Private individuals and corporations do not engage in options trading now due to West Germany's civil and exchange laws, which define losses made in futures and options business as gambling losses, which investors need not pay back. Options business has been hurt by lack of liquidity from pension funds, which currently are forbidden to invest in these instruments. But they are to be allowed to enter the business soon as the European Community begins to harmonize rules governing funds. Manfred Laux, general secretary of the West German mutual funds association in Frankfurt, said harmonized rules are to be adopted by October 1, 1989 at the latest. The push to adopt new instruments has not been great in the past, owing to wide-spread belief they are speculative, which gives them a bad name in West Germany. But pressure for their introduction here is growing. The start-up of a Swiss futures exchange has some bankers considering if a similar exchange would be useful in West Germany. They say that without innovations, some business could drift to London, which the Bundesbank vehemently opposes. An official at the London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) said the exchange currently has no plans to introduce more mark-denominated contracts beyond the existing mark-dollar contract. But he said the exchange is studying the feasibility of other contracts, including one for three-month mark interest rates and possibly a government bond contract. A Bundesbank capital markets expert said the Bundesbank has no objections to hedging through futures but any liberalization in that sector is still in the early planning stages after earlier talks ended two years ago. Considerations about the futures business have been drawn out because of the large number of participants involved in talks. They include parliament, the Bundesbank, the Federal Banking Supervisory Board, eight West German stock exchanges and their governing states, and the four West German banking associations. Beyond options and futures, other changes being suggested include replacing the federal government's current bond consortium with an auction procedure similar to one being considered in the U.K. And already in practice in the U.S. This would upset the existing market order providing German and foreign banks in the consortium with fixed quotas but it would eliminate the misallocations some bankers say presently arise within the fixed consortium quota system. In addition, some bankers would like the method of bond trading on the West German stock exchange changed to a system of continuous price-setting from the current system in which every bond price is fixed once a day. This would make trading more transparent if it reduced the proportion of off-floor interbank bond trading, now some 90 pct of the volume of bond transactions here, the bankers say. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN COCOA GRINDINGS WITHIN EXPECTATIONS

West German first quarter cocoa grindings, which rose 2.9 pct from the same 1986 quarter, were within expectations, trade sources said. They described the results, announced Saturday, as normal and unspectacular, considering that the grind in the fourth quarter was rather high and some was carried over into the first quarter. Grindings rose to 55,190 tonnes from 53,643 in the first 1986 quarter. A spokesman for the Confectionery Industry Association said that West German grindings are expected to stay relatively high in comparison to other West European countries. REUTER 
INSTITUTES DIVIDED ON OUTLOOK FOR GERMAN ECONOMY

The five leading West German economic research institutes have failed to agree about how strongly the domestic economy will expand this year but revised down forecasts contained in a report published six months ago. The three research groups of Kiel, Hamburg and Essen predicted in the institutes' joint spring report that gross national product (GNP) would rise by two pct in 1987, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986. The five institutes had jointly forecast three pct 1987 growth in October last year. Taking a dissenting view, the DIW institute of West Berlin and Munich's Ifo institute predicted only one pct 1987 growth. The joint report said that the estimates of economic development made by the DIW and Ifo were "markedly less favourable" than those of the other three. The DIW and Ifo forecast the economy would pick up after a slow start to the year. "In the second half of 1987 there will, however, only be a weak upward movement," they said. The two institutes said external economic factors which were currently damaging exports and pushing up imports would dominate the economic environment throughout the year. They saw exports falling by a real 2-1/2 pct in 1987 and predicted no marked improvement in the course of the year. The other three institutes, however, wrote: "The decline in demand and production (seen) in the winter months does not indicate the beginning of a cyclical downswing." They said the sharp rise of the mark had led to corporate uncertainty and companies had not carried out investment plans. But they expected that many investments had not been cancelled but only put off. "It can be presumed that the braking actions (on the economy) will diminish markedly this year." They added: "The domestic prerequisites for a continuation of the economic uptrend are still favourable." These three institutes said diminishing external burdens combined with favourable domestic conditions meant an upturn in demand and production could be expected by the spring. However, this projection was clouded by risks including the further development of the mark against the dollar. Contrary to the DIW and Ifo, the three institutes said that while exports would continue to be the weak point of the economy in 1987, "there is good reason to believe that exports will soon bottom out and that a slight rise will emerge during the course of the year." They predicted an overall 0.5 pct fall in exports in 1987, the same as in 1986. The three more positive institutes saw private consumption rising by four pct in 1987, compared with 4.2 pct in 1986, while DIW and Ifo predicted a three pct increase. They saw the climate for equipment investment improving but predicted only a rise of four pct in 1987 against 4.6 pct in 1986. Ifo and DIW saw these investments rising by only two pct. All the institutes predicted only a slight decline in unemployment. The Kiel, Hamburg and Essen institutes said the jobless total would average 2.17 mln in 1987 compared with 2.23 mln in 1986 and predicted a rise in the number of people in work of about 200,000. These three institutes said new jobs would be created mainly in the private services sector and also by the state in the context of job creation measures. The construction industry was likely to engage new workers for the first time since 1980 but they predicted either no rise in employment in the manufactured goods industry or only a slight expansion. The DIW and Ifo said rises in employment would occur only in the tertiary sector, while "the number employed in the manufacturing industry will decline." The DIW and Ifo said unemployment would only decline to 2.20 mln in 1987 from 2.23 mln in 1986. They saw the current account surplus falling in 1987 to 58 billion marks from 78 billion in 1986. The other three saw a current account surplus in 1987 of at least 60 billion marks and predicted that the trade surplus would fall to only around 100 billion marks from 112 billion in 1986. The institutes agreed that consumer prices would start to rise in 1987, after they declined in 1986, and all five predicted an average increase over the year of 0.5 pct. REUTER 
WEST GERMAN INSTITUTES CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS

The five leading West German economic research institutes said the government should do more to stimulate economic growth and called for early introduction of tax cuts planned for 1990. In their joint spring report the institutes were divided about 1987 growth forecasts, with three predicting two pct expansion and the other two only one pct growth. Gross national product grew 2.4 pct last year. But the report said all the institutes believed that "more must be done to produce dynamic growth so that more additional jobs can be created." The institutes said any step which improved basic economic conditions should be taken as quickly as possible. "From this point of view, the tax reform planned for 1990 should be brought forward." The government plans gross tax reductions of 44 billion marks as part of the major tax reform. The net tax relief from the tax reform will amount to 25 billion marks. However, the institutes criticised the government, not only for the timing of the reform, but also because the question of its financing had been left open. The government has not specified how the remaining 19 billion marks of the tax reduction package will be paid for, though it has said it wants to cut state subsidies. The institutes said this lack of clarity from Bonn had caused uncertainty among companies and households as to what exactly they would receive from the tax reform and urged a quick decision from the government. They also said the government should reduce tax preferences, which would simplify the fiscal system, urged a restriction of state spending and called for no increase in value-added tax. The institutes also criticised Bonn for increasing subsidies at a time further reductions had been pledged. They referred specifically to a doubling of special writedowns for small and medium sized companies announced in a package of tax adjustments planned for 1988 and described this as an increase in subsidies. The institutes said total subsidies, including tax preferences, had reached 80 billion marks in 1985 and risen further since then. Given the scope of these subsidies, it should be possible "despite ... Major political difficulties" to finance the tax reform by cutting state handouts. The institutes said that if the government raised value added tax or other indirect taxes a large portion of the positive effects resulting from lower taxes would be lost. The report also noted that the government was progressing only slowly with its plans to privatise state companies and said more deregulation was needed. The government had to aim for more competition, it said. REUTER 
BANGEMANN REJECTS CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS

West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann indirectly rejected a call from the country's leading economic research institutes for early introduction of a major tax reform involving gross tax cuts of 44 billion marks. In a statement reacting to the five institutes' joint spring report, Bangemann said that as far as the call for bringing forward the 1990 tax reform was concerned -- "The government points out that the positive effects for growth of its policy of consolidation (cutting the budget deficit) must not be allowed to be endangered." Bangemann also recalled that the scope of tax cuts planned for 1988 had already been increased. Three institutes predicted two pct economic growth in 1987, with exports falling by 0.5 pct. The other two saw only one pct growth and said exports would fall 2.5 pct. Bangemann said "The government, agreeing with the majority, sees no reason for the extraordinarily pessimistic estimate for exports expressed by the minority." He said there was reason to believe that export demand would start to rise in the course of the year, partly because of a further increase in world trade. REUTER 
INSTITUTES SEE NO WEST GERMAN RECESSION

The five leading West German economic research institutes, which have revised down their forecasts for 1987 growth, do not predict a recession in West Germany, their spokesman, Hans-Juergen Schmahl said. The institutes were divided in their spring report on forecasts for 1987, with three predicting two pct growth and two seeing only one pct expansion. Growth was 2.4 pct in 1986. Schmahl, presenting the report at a news conference, said, "None of the institutes reckons with a recession or with the beginning of a recession." He added, however, that exports remained the weak point of the economy . Schmahl also said West Germany would have to expect further encroachments of foreign goods onto its markets. Arthur Krumper of Munich's Ifo institute, which with the DIW of West Berlin had presented the more pessimistic view of the economy, said, "The braking effects (on the economy) produced by external factors will remain considerable for most of the year." REUTER 
GERMAN INSTITUTES WARN ON MONEY SUPPLY

Four of West Germany's five leading economic research institutes warned that excessive monetary growth threatened a resurgence of inflation. But in a dissenting view the DIW institute in West Berlin, echoing recent statements by leading Bundesbank officials, said the expansion seen over the last 1-1/2 years did not necessarily threaten stability. The five institutes issued a joint spring report, in which three -- Kiel, Hamburg and Essen -- forecast a two pct rise in GNP in 1987, while West Berlin and Munich predicted one pct. The four institutes said an expansive policy was welcome in view of the slowdown in economic activity. But experience has shown that strong monetary growth eventually leads to a price rise which undoes the beneficial effects of monetary policy. Given virtual zero inflation in West Germany such fears may seem exaggerated, they said. "But it has often turned out in the past that the price climate can quickly deteriorate, forcing the central bank into a restrictive policy," they said. The economic costs of a preventive stability policy are less than fighting inflation once it has taken hold, they said. The four institutes disputed the view that monetary expansion would slow of its own accord in 1987 as domestic investors switch liquidity into longer term capital market investments following lower interest rates. "Such redispositions may temporarily dampen the expansion of central bank money stock, but do not automatically lead to a smaller expansion of money supply," they said. A return to growth and stability did not require spectacular central bank moves, but could be done quietly with open market operations and repurchase pacts, which would avoid an interest rate rise by dampening inflationary expectations. The DIW institute said monetary policy should not be focused simply on growth of production potential. Because of uncertainty about exchange rate developments and economic weakness other factors should be taken into account. Monetary policy should aim for further interest rate cuts and avoid rises to boost the economy and discourage revaluation speculation. Recent strong monetary expansion was not a threat in itself to price stability. The 1979/81 inflation following strong 1977/78 money growth reflected other causes, such as rising oil prices and the falling mark. REUTER 
GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT IN MARCH

West German producer prices fell 0.1 pct in March compared with February to stand 3.9 pct lower than in March last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In February, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from January and dropped 4.2 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for natural gas had fallen 3.0 pct in March against February, heavy heating oil prices were 3.2 pct down, liquefied gas prices fell 14 pct and coffee was 7.4 pct cheaper. REUTER 
EUROPEAN BEET SOWINGS CATCH UP, USSR DELAYED

Fine weather throughout Europe allowed farmers to make good progress with sugar beet sowings during the period April 16-21, but conditions in the Soviet Union remained unfavourable, West German analyst F.O. Licht said. With daytime temperatures in parts of Europe exceeding 20 degrees centigrade Licht said sowings have been boosted and may be completed in most countries by the end of the month. In France the beet growers' association said the entire crop could be sown within a week if the good weather persists. Sowings this year will still be behind 1986 but Licht noted that good results have often been produced from late-sown crops. In the Soviet Union, however, most beet-growing regions still had cool weather with night frosts. Only in the western Ukraine was it warm enough to permit sowings, Licht said. Sowings in the USSR will consequently be much later than last year when one mln hectares had already been drilled by mid-April. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK AIMS FOR TIGHT MONEY POLICY - SCHLESINGER

The Bundesbank is trying to keep monetary policy tight in order to counter inflationary tendencies, Bundesbank Vice-President Helmut Schlesinger was quoted as saying. "We are trying to keep the monetary framework tight, so that inflationary pressures cannot develop," he told the Frankfurter Neue Presse daily in an interview. "Central bank money stock does not have to be reduced because of this, but it must continue to grow modestly," he said. Bundesbank spokesmen were not available for comment. On Thursday Schlesinger said in a contribution to the Handelsblatt daily that the accommodative monetary stance in West Germany caused by outside pressures could not determine policy in the long term. The improvement in West German terms of trade, providing room for non-inflationary expansion of domestic demand in excess of output growth, put the overshoot of central bank money stock in a more positive light, he said on Thursday. Central bank money stock, the Bundesbank's main monetary measure, was growing at an annual rate of 7.3 pct in March, above the 1987 three-six pct target range. Money stock overshot the 3.5-5.5 pct 1986 growth target. Schlesinger told the Frankfurter Neue Presse that the phase of falling prices was over in West Germany. Prices might still be lower on a comparison with their level one year earlier. But the cost of living index has risen to 120.7 in March from its November 1986 low of 120.0, expressing a slight rise in prices, Schlesinger said. In March the cost of living was steady against February but 0.2 pct below March 1986. Schlesinger said a rise of between one and 1.5 pct during 1987 would be acceptable, and effectively mean price stability. Agreements so far in the current West German wage round are neutral as far as inflation is concerned because of the strength of the mark, Schlesinger said. Wage agreements in the public service and engineering industry were relatively high in view of the stable cost of living. But the higher costs would be compensated for, he said. "I am thinking above all of the fact that in the course of this year we will in all probability have a stronger mark against other currencies than last year," he said, adding "Without this mark revaluation effect, we would have had to say that the wage rise agreements were not neutral for prices." Schlesinger said exchange rate movements had increased the scope for redistributing wealth this year, but this development was unlikely to continue in 1988. "For this reason I cannot comment on that part of the engineering agreement which covers the coming years," he said. Some 2.3 mln workers for the public services received a 3.4 pct pay rise from January 1. An agreement for four mln engineering workers raised pay by 3.7 pct from April 1, and then raises pay by another two pct from April 1, 1988 and by 2.5 pct from April 1, 1989. The engineering agreement also cuts the working week by 1-1/2 hours to 37 hours in two stages. REUTER 
GERMAN TRADE SURPLUS SHOULD NARROW, BUNDESBANK SAYS

Germany's current account and trade surpluses should narrow sharply in 1987 but they will take a long time to get back to normal levels, the Bundesbank said in its 1986 yearly report. The procedure would be slow as an abrupt turnaround in external factors such as oil prices and exchange rates was not expected. It did not specify what levels it considered normal. West Germany posted a record trade surplus of 124 billion marks in 1986, after 86 billion in 1985 and its current account surplus widened to 76.50 billion from 44.6 billion. Signs imports would continue to rise, a factor already noted at the start of 1986, while exports rose only slightly, would lead to a smaller trade surplus, the Bundesbank said. In real terms, West German imports rose 5.7 pct in 1986 while exports only increased by 0.8 pct. Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional 6.6 billion in February from 4.8 billion in January but was down from 6.85 billion posted in February 1986. The trade surplus in February widened to a provisional 10.4 billion marks from 7.2 billion in January and was still above the 6.84 billion reached in the same month the year before. REUTER 
SIGN OF SLOWING IN GERMAN MONEY GROWTH -BUNDESBANK

Central bank money stock was growing at about seven pct in the first quarter of 1987, down from 9-1/2 pct in the second half of 1986, so there are signs that the pace of growth is slowing even though it is still above target, the Bundesbank said in its 1986 annual report. The Bundesbank set a target range of three to six pct growth from fourth quarter 1986 to fourth quarter 1987 for central bank money stock. In the previous year it grew 7.7 pct, outside the 3-1/2 to 5-1/2 pct target range. The Bundesbank noted that monetary policy in 1986 was limited by a series of external factors. These included the revaluation of the mark, growing foreign payments surpluses of non-banks, and currency inflows. The Bundesbank therefore tolerated the monetary overshoot in 1986, as an attempt to counter monetary expansion with interest rate and liquidity moves would have increased upward pressure on the mark, it said. The lower end of the 1987 target range would be realistic if a large part of funds currently held in a liquid form were invested in long-term bank accounts or bonds, public bonds or foreign securities, the Bundesbank said. But if companies and private households continue to hold their funds in liquid forms, or if there are further currency inflows, growth will be closer to the upper end of the range. "The more the conflict between external constraints and domestic objectives relaxes -- and many things point to this at the time of writing this report -- the more possible it will be to do justice again to the medium-term concept of money supply control," the Bundesbank said. It noted that prices were beginning to tend upwards again at the start of 1987. There would be virtually no easing of other production costs in 1987 to compensate for the rise in unit-wage costs. "Nevertheless, no inflationary trends are likely to set in this year," the Bundesbank said. A link between excessive monetary growth and intensifying price rises can only be observed in the long term, it added. The continuing trend for non-banks to switch into long-term borrowing to take advantage of low interest rates, while for the same reason shunning long-term investments, increases the risks in changing interest rates for banks refinancing themselves with variable-interest deposits, it added. REUTER 
POEHL TO REMAIN BUNDESBANK CHIEF, MAGAZINE SAYS

Chancellor Helmut Kohl has decided to keep Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in office for a further eight years, the news magazine Der Spiegel said. Government officials were not immediately available to comment on the report, which said that because Poehl is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Kohl had not taken the decision lightly. Poehl has been Bundesbank chief since January 1, 1980, while Kohl's conservative/liberal coalition has held power since 1982. Der Spiegel said Kohl would have preferred to offer the post to a member of his Christian Democratic Union (CDU). But the magazine noted Poehl enjoyed a good international reputation. Officials have often said Poehl and CDU Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg hold each other in high regard. Poehl's current term expires at the end of this year. Officials have said no date has been set for an announcement on whether his tenure will be extended. Poehl was made an economic adviser to SPD Chancellor Willy Brandt in 1971. A year later he was appointed State Secretary at the Finance Ministry when former SPD Chancellor Helmut Schmidt was Finance Minister. There has recently been press speculation that the Bundesbank presidency may be offered to Poehl's deputy, Helmut Schlesinger, a conservative monetarist. According to these reports, Schlesinger would be replaced two years later by CDU member Hans Tietmeyer, the current Finance Ministry State Secretary. Also under discussion as president was Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, a member of the Bundesbank board and a CDU member who is known to be close to Kohl. REUTER 
FURTHER TERM FOR POEHL LIKELY, BONN SOURCES SAY

Karl Otto Poehl is likely to be re-elected President of the Bundesbank when his current term in office expires at the end of this year, government sources said. They were commenting on a report in Der Spiegel news magazine which said Chancellor Helmut Kohl had decided to keep Poehl in office for another eight years. Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost had no comment on the report, other than to say that the subject of the Bundesbank presidency was not currently under discussion. Der Spiegel said that, because Poehl is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Kohl had not taken the decision lightly. Poehl has been Bundesbank chief since January 1, 1980, while Kohl's conservative/liberal coalition has held power since 1982. Der Spiegel said Kohl would have preferred to offer the post to a member of his Christian Democratic Union (CDU). REUTER 
POEHL TO REMAIN BUNDESBANK CHIEF, MAGAZINE SAYS

Chancellor Helmut Kohl has decided to keep Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl in office for a further eight years, the news magazine Der Spiegel said. Government officials were not immediately available to comment on the report, which said that because Poehl is a member of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Kohl had not taken the decision lightly. Poehl has been Bundesbank chief since January 1, 1980, while Kohl's conservative/liberal coalition has held power since 1982. Der Spiegel said Kohl would have preferred to offer the post to a member of his Christian Democratic Union (CDU). But the magazine noted Poehl enjoyed a good international reputation. Officials have often said Poehl and CDU Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg hold each other in high regard. Poehl's current term expires at the end of this year. Officials have said no date has been set for an announcement on whether his tenure will be extended. Poehl was made an economic adviser to SPD Chancellor Willy Brandt in 1971. A year later he was appointed State Secretary at the Finance Ministry when former SPD Chancellor Helmut Schmidt was Finance Minister. There has recently been press speculation that the Bundesbank presidency may be offered to Poehl's deputy, Helmut Schlesinger, a conservative monetarist. According to these reports, Schlesinger would be replaced two years later by CDU member Hans Tietmeyer, the current Finance Ministry State Secretary. Also under discussion as president was Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, a member of the Bundesbank board and a CDU member who is known to be close to Kohl. REUTER 
GERMAN SUGAR BEET PLANTINGS MOST ADVANCED IN SOUTH

Sugar beet plantings are almost complete in southern West Germany but are lagging behind in other regions, trade sources said. In the west of the country, about 60 pct of the plantings were completed, while in the north only 40 pct of the sugar beet area has been sown, they said. The weather is forecast to stay mild in northern West Germany in the coming days and more planting progress is expected there, they said. This year's area sown to sugar beets is likely to fall to 38,500 hectares from around 40,000 last year. REUTER 
FRENCH PRODUCERS WITHDRAW SUGAR FROM INTERVENTION

French producers have withdrawn all offers to sell more than 700,000 tonnes of sugar into European Community intervention stocks, EC Commission sources said. They also said West German producers had now withdrawn the last 3,000 of the 79,250 tonnes they sold into EC stores on April 1. The sales were made to protest against the level of export restitutions being granted for sugar at weekly EC tenders. Last Friday, commission sources said the West German producers had withdrawn all but 3,000 tonnes of their sales. The protest by European producers involved sales of 854,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention, of which 785,000 tonnes were accepted by the commission. Under EC regulations, operators had five weeks before receiving payment to withdraw the sugar. Their decision to withdraw the sugar follows what commission sources have said is a slight shift in the authority's stance in recent weeks. The commission last week increased the maximum restitutions to within about 0.5 Ecus per kilo of the prices which traders claim are needed to match intervention prices. Reuter 
EC SUGAR STANCE LED TO GERMAN INTERVENTION MOVE

A shift in the European Community's attitude to exports led to West German producers withdrawing sugar sold into intervention, industry sources said. The sources noted the withdrawal followed a rise in maximum Commission restitutions to within 0.5 European currency units, Ecus, per 100 kilos of the level traders claim is needed to match intervention prices. One source said, "This was taken as a sign that the Community was taking a more favourable stance towards exports." He added producers still expected more from the Commission. German producers had sold 79,250 tonnes into intervention. Reuter 
GERMAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN MARCH

West Germany's current account surplus widened to a provisional 8.8 billion marks in March from a slightly downwards revised 6.5 billion in February, a spokesman for the Federal Statistics Office said. The trade surplus fell to a provisional 10.1 billion marks from 10.4 billion in February. The Statistics Office had earlier put the February current account surplus at a provisional 6.6 billion marks. The provisional February trade surplus was confirmed. The Office said the March trade surplus had also risen strongly from the year-ago month total of 8.5 billion marks, while the March current account surplus compared with only 4.3 billion marks a year earlier. The figures given by the office show nominal trade flows, but an office statement said that the current account surplus had also risen in real terms from February. However, it attributed this partly to the fact that payments to the European Community had been brought forward in February, with the result that transfers abroad in March were unusually low. The Statistics Office said March imports totalled 36.93 billion marks, a rise of 15 pct from February and of 4.7 pct compared with March 1986. March exports of 47.06 billion marks were 11 pct higher than in February and 7.6 pct higher than in March last year. Other data reported in the current account balance showed there was a 400 mln mark deficit in supplementary trade items, a 500 mln mark deficit in the services account and a 400 mln mark deficit in transfer payments. The Statistics Office said that in the first three months of this year the trade surplus had risen to 27.8 billion marks from 22.6 billion marks in the same period last year. The current account surplus had risen to 20.0 billion marks from 15.6 billion. REUTER 
KOHL COALITION ACCEPTS DOUBLE-ZERO

West Germany said it would accept a superpower plan to ban medium and shorter-range nuclear missiles in Europe provided Bonn was allowed to retain its own shorter-range missiles. After six weeks of public wrangling over the so-called "double-zero" offer, Chancellor Helmut Kohl's coalition finally said it would agree to an East-West ban on shorter-range nuclear missiles. But in a statement issued after top-level talks, the government said Bonn wanted the 72 West German Pershing-1a missiles excluded from an East-West accord -- a demand diplomats said could produce a snag in the Geneva arms talks. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK SETS NEW REPURCHASE TENDER

The Bundesbank set a new tender for a 28-day securities repurchase agreement, offering banks liquidity aid at a minimum bid rate of 3.50 pct, a central bank spokesman said. Banks must make their bids by 1400 GMT today and funds allocated will be credited to accounts tomorrow. Banks must repurchase securities pledged on July 1. REUTER 
GERMAN GNP FIGURES PUBLICATION DELAYED

Figures for first quarter 1987 West German GNP will be published on June 11 after they were provisionally scheduled for June 4, an official at the Federal Statistics Office said. The official said there had been a delay in gathering information for the data, which are expected to show that the West German economy contracted in the period. A spokesman for the Economics Ministry in Bonn said there was no political motivation behind publishing the figures on June 11, the day after the Venice economic summit ends. "There is no political motivation. It is a purely technical matter," he added. The West German government is expected to come under pressure in Venice from both the U.S. And its European partners to stimulate domestic demand as a way of reducing international trade imbalances and contributing to world economic growth. However, government officials have ruled out any further tax reduction packages to supplement a major program of stimulatory fiscal measures already underway. Helmut Schlesinger, vice-president of the West German central bank, the Bundesbank, said in Tokyo today that GNP, the widest measure of a country's economic activity, fell in real terms by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter compared with the fourth 1986 period. The government has confirmed that growth was negative in the first 1987 quarter. But year-on-year growth is expected to be about two pct. Schlesinger today repeated the Bundesbank's reluctance to cut its official interest rates further. Its key discount rate, at three pct, is just above historical lows. West German officials are likely to emphasise at the Venice summit that domestic demand, which draws in goods from abroad, is already outstripping export performance, which has suffered from an 80 pct rise of the mark against the dollar in just over two years. The government has pointed out that depressed exports are the main reason for the current weakness in the economy, but says that later in the year stronger domestic demand will compensate for this setback. It expects GNP growth for the whole of 1987 of just under two pct, after a 2.4 pct rise in 1986. REUTER 
BUNDESBANK SOURCES SAY VOLCKER MOVE REGRETTED

The Bundesbank noted with regret that Paul Volcker will not be available for a further term as Federal Reserve chairman, Bundesbank sources said. Cooperation with Volcker was always trusting and successful for many years, the sources said. On the other hand the Bundesbank is confident that the good cooperation between the Bundesbank and the Fed will continue under the chairmanship of Alan Greenspan, the sources said. REUTER 
GERMAN EXPERTS SAY NO FURTHER ECONOMIC STIMULUS

The West German government's independent council of economic experts believes a further stimulation of the economy is inappropriate, government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said. A statement released by Ost after a meeting of Chancellor Helmut Kohl and senior government officials with the council said the experts believed 1987 ecomomic growth of 1-1/2 to two pct was achievable. It added the council believed "an intensification of the already expansionary stimulation of monetary and financial policy is not called for." Ost's statement said experts believed further pressure on West Germany to adapt to external economic factors would not increase. The government regularly uses the term "changed external economic factors" when referring to the fall of the dollar, which has severely damaged West German exports. Bonn officials have said they expect exports to pick up during the year, but could still fall below the 1986 level. Along with other leading industrial countries, West Germany agreed to a package of measures at a meeting in Paris in February aimed at stemming the fall of the dollar. The stance taken by the experts backs up the official position of the West German government ahead of next week's seven nation summit in Venice, where Bonn is expected to be pressed by the U.S. And other partners to boost its economy. West German government officials have stressed Bonn is not in a position to stimulate growth further since tax cuts due next year and 1990 are already stretching the budget. The Bundesbank has also ruled out a quick cut in official interest rates although it sees market rates continuing low. The experts' prediction for economic growth this year of between 1-1/2 and two pct is a slight downward revision from a forecast made last November when two pct growth was forecast. Many independent forecasters have revised down 1987 predictions in light of the downturn in exports. The government itself has said it expects growth of just under two pct, compared with a 2.4 pct expansion in 1986. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG PRAISES FED'S VOLCKER

Finance Minster Gerhard Stoltenberg praised the excellent leadership of Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker whom the White House said will not be standing for a third term when his current period in office expires. "Paul Volcker will go down in U.S. History as one of the important chairmen of the Federal Reserve Board. By his excellent leadership he has also won our great respect," Stoltenberg said in a Finance Ministry statement. The minister described Volcker's successor, economist Alan Greenspan, as an experienced and capable man and wished him all the best in his new role. REUTER 
BLOCKED RHINE NAVIGATION CHANNEL REMAINS CLOSED

The main navigation channel of the Rhine, blocked by two sunken boats, will remain closed at least until the beginning of next week, a water authority spokesman said today. Karlsruhe water authorities said a queue of about 70 ships had formed between the towns of Speyer and Iffezheim but most shipping companies had unloaded cargoes and were using alternative means of transport. Heinz-Josef Recker, of the Mannheim water authority, said two floating cranes would make a fresh attempt to raise the sunken tug and its lighter after an unsuccessful try on Friday. The tug Orinoko hit a railway bridge last Tuesday and sank with a cargo of 3,500 tonnes of gravel on board. Before the accident, about 100 ships a day sailed under the bridge. Reuter 
W GERMAN SHIP HIT DURING WARSAW PACT WAR GAMES

A West German navy ship was accidentally hit today by artillery shells from a Warsaw Pact vessel in the Baltic Sea and three sailors were injured, the Defence Ministry said. The ship, the Tender Neckar, was struck while watching Warsaw Pact exercises in the Baltic Sea, a ministry spokesman said. He could not say what condition the men were in or which country owned the ship which fired the shots. The spokesman said West Germany believed the incident was accidental. Reuter 
GERMANY PLANS TO RUSH SPECIAL CREDITS TO FARMERS

Bonn is expected to rush through legislation this month creating special credits to protect West German farmers from a proposed European Community, EC, payments freeze, government sources said. The new measures are apparently designed to shield West German farmers from the consequences of the looming EC budget crisis and give Bonn scope to keep up its opposition to the EC executive commission's farm policy reform plans, political sources said. EC finance and farm minsters held an unprecedented joint session in Luxembourg today to try to solve the stalemate over future farm financing. West Germany has proved the main obstacle to Commission attempts to raise fresh funds for farm financing by taxing imports of vegetable oil and fats, for fear of U.S. retaliation. Bonn has also opposed the abolition of an agri-monetary mechanism that acts as a subsidy for West German farm exports. The draft legislation, which the ruling centre-right coalition will present to parliament tomorrow, would provide temporary credits for farm subsidies usually paid by Brussels. The Commission, facing a five billion European Currency Units (5.73 billion dlrs) budget deficit by the end of the year, has threatened to start phasing out payment of some subsidies and premiums from August, unless EC member states take urgent measures to provide fresh funds. West German Agriculture Minister Ignaz Kiechle gave the new legislation top priority after last month's failure to agree to a farm price package for 1986/87. Political sources in Bonn said Kiechle decided to take the sting out of proposed Commission measures to cut back subsidies by creating a buffer for West German farmers. The opposition SPD has agreed to back the Kiechle bill and allow its hasty passage through parliament by July 1, ahead of the summer recess, SPD sources said. SPD farm policy spokesman Jan Oostergetelo said his party would support the bill, even though it would further swell massive government spending on agriculture. He said the bill was an admission that the government believes the farm price talks will fail and the EC faces bankruptcy. According to a copy of the draft bill obtained by Reuters, government authorities will have over two billion marks (1.1 billion dlrs) available to pay farmers advance subsidies and premiums for grains and other crops harvested this summer. The Commission has agreed to pay the subsidies eventually. But paying farmers on time will cost Bonn about 100 mln marks (55 mln dlrs) in interest payments, farm policy sources said. Chancellor Helmut Kohl's cabinet is expected to support the bill when it meets tomorrow. Reuter 
GERMAN STEEL INDUSTRY TO SEEK LAY-OFF FUNDS

The West German Government will be asked June 16 to provide nearly 850 million marks (470 million dollars) to lay off or retrain 20,000 steel workers whose jobs are threatened by the recent slump in the country's steel industry. Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said Chancellor Helmut Kohl will review a joint proposal by steel employers and trade unions at a meeting on the ailing industry tomorrow. Both steel employers and union leaders are expected to tell Kohl tomorrow that the Government has failed to do enough to protect German steel firms from subsidies and unfair competition from other European Community members. Government sources said Bonn was prepared to take part in a common effort to find a solution for the steelworkers. But since the Government is struggling to finance tax cuts by slashing state subsidies, it is not prepared to pick up the whole bill for the layoffs, the sources said. A spokesman for IG Metall, the metalworkers' trade union, said the proposal seeks redundancy payments to 10,000 workers in Ruhr and Rhineland plants. Some 6,000 workers would be redeployed in non-steel making sectors of steel companies, while a further 4,000 would be eligible for job-retraining schemes. The union estimates that the redundancy payments would total 600 million marks (340 million dollars), while job retraining schemes would cost a further 240 million marks (130 million dollars). Up to 30,000 West German steel jobs are at risk in the next few years following steep losses incurred by the industry since mid-1986. Extensive restructuring of the industry in recent years was unable to compensate for the effects of the weak dollar which depressed foreign demand for steel, industry sources said. Reuter 
GERMAN STEEL INDUSTRY SEEKS LAY-OFF FUNDS

The West German government today considered demands for nearly 850 mln marks to lay off or retrain 20,000 steel workers. Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said Chancellor Helmut Kohl reviewed a joint proposal by steel employers and trade unions at a special meeting with steel industry representatives. Companies like Fried Krupp <KRPG.D> and Hoesch Werke AG <HWKG.F>, which saw profits plunge last year, have taken the unusual step of aligning with the metalworkers' trade union, IG Metall, to press for government finance to slim staff levels still further. Government officials said Bonn was prepared to take part in a common effort to find a solution for the steelworkers. But since the government was struggling to finance tax cuts by reducing state subsidies, it could not pay for all the layoffs. A spokesman for IG Metall said the joint proposal foresaw redundancy payments to 10,000 workers in Ruhr and Rhineland plants. Some 6,000 workers would be redeployed in non-steel making sectors of steel companies, while a further 4,000 would be eligible for job-retraining schemes. Redundancies are estimated at 600 mln marks, while job retraining would cost a further 240 mln. REUTER 
RPT - EUROPEAN TRADE MAY PROPOSE NEW ICO FORMULA

European coffee traders and roasters may propose a new formula for calculating International Coffee Organization (ICO) coffee quotas at the end of their meeting here this week, traders and officials told Reuters. Although traders were unwilling to reveal details of the possible new formula, they said it would give Brazil, the world's biggest coffee producer, unchanged ICO quotas for the next two years and could be a basis for renegotiation. "The main sticking point on quotas has been Brazil's attitude, and this compromise could be a solution, " one said. However, the European coffee trade federation meeting, which began here today and is to continue to the end of the week, has revealed gaps in the European position on re-introducing quotas. Traders said that, as a whole, the trade side was against re-introduction of ICO quotas, while roasters were generally in favour with the single proviso that there had to be some formula basis for re-allocating quota shares among producing countries. The roasters said the positions were generally fairly close, and problems with some Government officials. Germany and Italy were cited as the extremes of polarized Government attitudes, with most other countries on the fence. Sources said Germany was the most extreme against quota re-introduction, while the Italians were most in favour. "Nevertheless, we expect to find enough common ground by the end of the week to at least present a common European Community (EC) view at the next meeting of consumer members of the International Coffee Agreement (ICA) in July," one trader said. "We hope we can present the compromise proposal and that not only the consumer side, but the producer side will accept it," one official said. "We have learned that we can live without the quotas that were suspended in February last year, but would prefer the stability they can bring to the market as long as we do not simply return to the old and outdated status quo as far as quota allocation is concerned," he added. Overall, however, trader and roaster opinion on the likelihood of a successful re-negotiation was mildly pessimistic, varying between a 50-50 chance and 60-40 against. "Our main difficulty will be to persuade the U.S. On the consumer side and Brazil on the producer side to agree to quota re-introduction, " he said. "The U.S. Position has, if anything, hardened, while the new Brazilian Coffee Institute president has adopted the least negotiable position of any of his predecessors," one trader said. "However, with many producers starting to swing in favour of the consumer position that quotas have to be re-allocated under a new formula, Brazil is becoming increasingly isolated, which gives at least some hope of a compromise at the ICO quota meeting in September," the official said. Reuter 
OECD SEES GERMAN GROWTH HIT BY LOW DOMESTIC DEMAND

West German economic growth will slow to 1.5 pct this year from 2.4 pct in 1986 due to weak domestic demand and tougher competition from abroad, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) said in its semi-annual review of the world economy. This view is less favourable than the West German government's forecast of a growth rate of under two pct this year, but is in line with forecasts by independent economic institutes of growth ranging from 1.5 to two pct. The OECD said that the economy should pick up next year, with the gross national product rising by two pct in real terms. The OECD said it assumed the German economy was passing through a period of temporary weakness and there would be some recovery in business confidence in the near future. But it warned that the key to an improvement in the economy was higher domestic demand, which is only forecast to rise by 2.5 pct this year and 2.75 pct in 1988, below 1986's 3.7 pct. While noting that the government is bringing forward a five billion mark tax reform to January 1988, the OECD said that "the medium to longer-term performance of the West German economy could be improved by reduction of subsidies - which would allow relatively lower tax rates." Since the OECD report was compiled, the West German Federal Statistics Office has released figures showing that the GNP actually fell 0.5 pct in real terms in the first quarter of this year compared with the final three months of 1986. Diplomatic sources here said that West Germany appeared likely to finish the year with the lowest growth rate of any of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations. West Germany's current account surplus, the target of considerable criticism by the Reagan administration, is expected to rise slightly to 37 billion dlrs this year from 35.8 billion in 1986, before declining to 29 billion dlrs in 1988. REUTER 
GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.1 PCT IN MAY

West German producer prices rose 0.1 pct in May compared with April to stand 2.9 pct lower than in May last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In April, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from March and dropped 3.6 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for liquefied gas fell 10 pct in May from April and heavy heating oil prices declined 5.3 pct, while lead prices rose 23 pct and silver prices increased 13 pct. REUTER 
EC FARM MINISTERS MEETING UNLIKELY NEXT WEEK

A meeting of European Community (EC) farm ministers is unlikely to be held next week following the ministers' failure to agree a 1987/88 farm price package yesterday, an EC Commission spokesman said. However, he said he could not rule out such a meeting altogether, noting the decision is one for Belgium, which currently holds the presidency of the EC council of ministers. The farm ministers could also meet in parallel with the meeting of EC heads of government in Brussels on June 29 and 30, diplomats noted. The ministers ended their three-day meeting in Luxembourg still split on the question of an oils and fats tax and with West Germany saying it would use its veto on two other key aspects of EC Commission proposals, the actual common price changes and a revision of the "green money" system. The Commission spokesman said an announcement is likely to appear in the EC's Official Journal within a few days giving notice of the Commission's intention to take emergency measures from July 1 should ministers fail to reach an accord. However, Commission sources said this notice would not detail the measures to be taken, which, they said, might be considered by the Commission at its regular weekly meeting next Wednesday. The Commission published a declaration by EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen made in Luxembourg early yesterday at the end of the agriculture ministers' meeting. In it, Andriessen said there was now a serious threat to the functioning of the Common Agricultural Policy. Andriessen added ,"The Commission...Will take the measures which are necessary, not only for the temporary management of the markets, but also for a healthy finance policy." "This means that the protective measures we are going to apply will necessarily have, in the context of our own powers, a dynamic character," he said. REUTER 
BONN WILL HOLD TAX REFORM TIMETABLE, KOHL SAYS

The West German government will stick to its agreed timetable and introduce tax cuts worth 44 billion marks from 1990, Chancellor Helmut Kohl said. Kohl told a news conference, "The tax reform will be realised as agreed by the coalition after the (last general) election" in January. He said the leadership of his own Christian Democratic party repeated its support for the tax reform timetable at a meeting this week. CDU vice-chairman Lothar Spaeth also reiterated his doubts about whether the reform was feasible as planned, but received no support from other party members, he added. Kohl said the government intends to decide by the autumn how to raise around 19 billion marks still needed to finance the tax reform. Subsidies paid to ailing industries are the main target for trimming to pay for the tax reform. But politicians both inside and outside the government have expressed doubts about making politically painful cuts in subsidies. REUTER 
HIGH WATER EXTENDS RHINE RIVER BLOCKAGE

Rising water levels on the Rhine caused by heavy rain are delaying an operation near Karlsruhe to raise two sunken boats which have blocked the river's main navigation channel since early last week, a Karlsruhe water authority spokesman said. He said two floating cranes were unable to begin lifting the sunken tug Orinoko and its lighter because the water level had reached 815 centimetres and was forecast to rise to 820-830 cm by tomorrow. He was unable to say when the operation might begin. Meanwhile, high water at Cologne has forced vessels to travel at reduced speed, a water authority spokesman in Cologne said. But a water authority spokesman in Duisburg, 60 kms north of Cologne, said vessels there were moving normally. Reuter 
RHINE BLOCKED FOR THREE MORE WEEKS - SALVAGER

Dutch salvage firm Smit-Tak said it may take some three weeks to lift the Swiss tug Orinoko and its lighter Pavo which sank 10 days ago at Karlsruhe in West Germany, blocking the Rhine river. Smit-Tak, which with its West German subsidiary Harms Bergung GmbH was commissioned by the local water authorities to raise the vessels, said its lifting fleet was in position and divers had made the first inspection. Smit is still preparing its final salvage plan and said the work would begin on Sunday. Reuter 
POEHL SPEAKS AGAINST GERMAN INTEREST RATE CUT

Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said West Germany would be badly advised to lower interest rates and that he believed the economy would continue to recover after a six-month lull. Asked by the newspaper Bild am Sonntag if lower interest rates could boost the domestic economy, Poehl said: "We would be badly advised if we forced further interest rate cuts. "This could, under certain circumstances, release new inflationary fears which would then be more likely to lead to higher interest rates," he added. Poehl said Germany had practically no growth in the past six months because of the mark's surge and the cold winter. "But since April, statistics clearly show that the economy finds itself on a course of growth," he said. "I expect this development to continue in the coming months." Asked about his expectations of a U.S.-European Community trade war, Poehl said such an event would be disastrous. "For this reason we in Europe must avoid everything used by protectionist forces in the U.S. As pretexts," he added. "This includes...Eliminating existing restrictions in the EC as far as possible. Protectionism is not found only in the U.S." Reuter 
FRANCO-GERMAN PARLEY FAILS TO UNBLOCK FARM TALKS

A specially convened Franco-German meeting in the sidelines of a summit of EC leaders failed to make any progress over a 1987-88 farm price package that has deeply split the two former EC allies, diplomats said The meeting was attended by farm ministers and foreign ministers from both countries and by French President Francois Mitterand, his Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, and by Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany. The stalemate over farm prices is seen as a key to providing a solution to a long-term settlement of the Community's worst-ever budget crisis. "The Germans clearly do not want to budge," an aide to Chirac told reporters. He added the French Prime Minister was visibly angered as he the hour-long meeting. Bonn and Paris are diametrically opposed to a proposal for the Brussels Executive Commission to overhaul radically the EC's complex "green" currrency system, designed to translate common EC farm prices into national currencies. Paris also supports a move for an oils and fats tax which West Germany is against, along with Britain, Denmark and the Netherlands. EC farm minsters are due to resume negotiations on the package, which should have been agreed by an April 1 deadline tomorrow. Diplomats said it had been hoped that the summit could have injected fresh impetus into those talks. The Commission proposed its package to save one billion dollars on the EC's ever-rising farm budget. The summit has been dominated by lengthy talks on moves to alter the entire system of financing the 12-nation group, and plugging a 5.7 billion dollar budget shortfall for 1987. Reuter 
POEHL SAYS RATE RISES ARE CAUSE FOR CONCERN

Rises in West German and international interest rates are a cause for concern and the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market rates, Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said. "We consider the interest rate increase that has occurred here and internationally to be a problem and cause for concern," Poehl told an investment conference. "I would like to stress that the Bundesbank has no interest in higher capital market rates," he said. Shortly after Poehl spoke, the Bundesbank announced a tender for a securities repurchase pact at a fixed rate of 3.80 pct. Previous tenders over the last month by interest rate have seen the allocation rate on these facilities rise to 3.85 pct at last week's pact from 3.60 on the last fixed-rate tender in late September. The Bundesbank's reduction of the key allocation rate to 3.80 from 3.85 pct was heralded Monday by repeated injections of money market liquidity at between 3.70 and 3.80 pct. These moves to cap interest rates followed a meeting between Poehl, Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker Monday in Frankfurt. Officials said afterwards the three men had reaffirmed their commitment to the Louvre accord on currency stability. Over the weekend, criticism by Baker of the tightening in West German monetary policy had prompted a sharp fall of the dollar on speculation that Louvre cooperation had ended. But the dollar rallied on news of Monday's meeting in nervous trading to trade above 1.79 marks Tuesday. Poehl said that the recent rise in interest rates was not due to central bank policy, but to markets' expectations, and currency developments. Commenting on the inflationary expectations, Poehl said "You have to get to the root of the problem, you have to pursue a policy which reveals that there are no grounds for such fears." The inflationary fears were unjustified and exaggerated, he said. Poehl rebuffed recent U.S. Criticism of West Germany, saying the Bundesbank had made a substantial contribution to international cooperation in interest and monetary policy. The Bundesbank has tolerated an overshooting of its money supply target, arousing criticism from other quarters, he said. "Today we still have lower interest rates than at the end of 1986... Quite the contrary of other countries, where interest rates have risen substantially more," Poehl said. This had to be taken into account when considering recent rises in repurchase pact allocation rates, which were due to rising international money market rates that had spilled over into the German market, he said. Poehl expressed surprise that financial markets had so far ignored improvements in the U.S. Deficits. "The adjustment process in the U.S. Trade balance is definitely underway," he said, noting that this was not so noticeable in absolute figures. The spectacular improvement in the budget deficit had also attracted little attention, he said. REUTER 
STOLTENBERG SAYS GLOBAL SHARE CRASH OVERDONE

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the global share price crash was overdone and unfounded. Stoltenberg was speaking at a press conference. REUTER 
 Stoltenberg says Louvre accord vital to West Germany



STOLTENBERG AGREES WITH POEHL ON INFLATION OUTLOOK

West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said that there were absolutely no signs of current dangers to price stability in West Germany. He was speaking at a news conference shortly after Bundesbank president Karl Otto Poehl told a conference in Frankfurt that inflationary fears, which have been responsible for recent interest rate increases, were unjustified and exaggerated. Reuter 
OILMEAL DEMAND STILL STRONG IN U.S., SOVIET UNION

Oilmeal demand remained strong in the United States in July and August and six pct up on levels seen in the same months last year, with most of the rise coming in soymeal, the Hamburg based publication Oil World said. Total U.S domestic usage of the nine major oilmeals rose to a record 19 mln tonnes in October 1986/August 1987, up 4.2 pct on the same year-ago period, with the increase in soymeal at seven pct, it said. Soviet soymeal demand rose by 310,000 tonnes in July and 330,000 tonnes in August over the respective year-ago months following a huge increase in soymeal imports. Oil World presumed some imports were not used immediately but went into stocks. With imports again large in September, it estimated Soviet soymeal stocks sharply up at 800,000 tonnes by October 1 from around 130,000 at the same time last year. EC oilmeal demand rose 100,000 tonnes in August from a year earlier, with soymeal up 45,000 tonnes. Crushings of rapeseed, sunseed and soybeans will probably rise from last year due to bumper EC crops. It estimated the EC rapeseed crop at a record 5.9 mln tonnes, up from 3.7 mln last year. Rapeseed disposals were reported at 2.1 mln tonnes by September 20 against 1.4 mln at that time last year. REUTER 
EC STATES ATTACK PLAN TO PENALISE FARMERS

EC agriculture ministers attacked plans to penalise farmers immediately it becomes clear that cereals output is above standard norms, EC sources said. They said this was the major criticism raised at a meeting of ministers which discussed Commission proposals for curbing spending on the cereals regime. The Commission wants powers to cut guaranteed prices or raise the coresponsibility levy if output next harvest rises above 155 mln tonnes. The sources said several ministers complained that changing price levels in the middle of a season would severely damage the financial security of farmers. But an EC Commission spokesman said farm commissioner Frans Andriessen told them producers could not be guaranteed security regardless of market circumstances. The sources said there was a general acceptance of the need for some output ceilings. However, the French and Dutch ministers called for a maximum output for a wider range of cereal crops, rather than for cereals alone. The sources added West Germany wanted production ceilings for individual countries with excess production being paid for from national exchequers, but received no support for this idea. British farm minister John MacGregor told reporters he detected more support for his position against the penalties on farmers being administered through higher coresponsibility levies. He said he believes increasing the levies would do nothing to increase EC cereals consumption whereas lower prices for farmers could help in this direction. Reuter 
ASEA BROWN BOVERI SETS GROUP STRUCTURE

Asea AB <ASEA.ST> said the group to be formed by its merger with Switzerland's BBC AG Brown Boveri und Cie <BBCZ.Z> would have four main business areas; power plants, power transmission, power distribution and industrial equipment. Asea Brown Boveri Ltd's international markets would continue to be run by decentralised management, and the three main home markets, Switzerland, West Germany and Sweden, would continue to play an important role, Asea said in a statement. It said research and development were crucial to the group's future and central reasearch resources and laboratories in the three home markets would be strengthened. Reuter 
BUNDESBANK WILL NOT HOLD NEWS CONFERENCE THURSDAY

The Bundesbank will not hold a news conference after its regular fortnightly central bank council meeting on Thursday, a spokesman said in answer to enquiries. The council is meeting in West Berlin, where it meets once a year. It also meets once a year in another German city. These meetings outside Frankfu